<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>The Clergyman's Hand-book of Law</title>
      <author><name reg="Scanlan, Charles M.">Charles M. Scanlan</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>March 12, 2011</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">35563</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2011-03-12">March 12, 2011</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by David King and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
            (This file was produced from images generously made
            available by The Internet Archive/Canadian
            Libraries.)
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">The Clergyman's Hand-book of Law</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">The Law of Church and Grave</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Charles M. Scanlan, LL.B.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Author of <q>Scanlan's Rules of Order,</q> <q>Law of Fraternities,</q> <q>Law of Hotels,</q> etc.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">New York, Cincinnati, Chicago</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Benziger Brothers</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">1909</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='iv'/><anchor id='Pgiv'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Imprimatur</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Nihil Obstat.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Remy Lafort</hi>,
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Censor Librorum</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Imprimatur.</hi>
</p>

<p>
John M. Farley,
</p>

<p>
[cross] <hi rend='italic'>Archbishop of New York</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>New York</hi>, January 15, 1909.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Copyright, 1909, by Benziger Brothers.</hi>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='v'/><anchor id='Pgv'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Preface</head>

<p>
The three learned professions, medicine,
law, and theology, overlap; and a man who
does not know something of the other two
can not be prominent in his own. Laws
relating to Church matters are scattered
through such a vast array of law books
that it would be a burden for a clergyman
to purchase them, and without special training
he would not know where to look for
the law. Therefore a law compendium covering
those subjects relating to Church matters
must be of great value to a clergyman.
</p>

<p>
There is another view of this subject.
When she was mistress of the world the
laws of the Roman Empire were for the
Roman citizens, particularly the patricians;
the canon law was the law of the Christian
people of conquered countries and the Christian
plebeians of Rome. In the United States
we have the same common law for the President
and the hod-carrier, for the multimillionaire
<pb n='vi'/><anchor id='Pgvi'/>
and the penniless orphan, for the
clergy and the laity. Consequently, in this
practical age a knowledge of the law of the
country with which the clergy come constantly
in contact is expedient, if not necessary.
</p>

<p>
The poet says:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>What constitutes a state?...</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'>Men, who their duties know,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>But know their rights, and knowing, dare maintain.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
To insure harmony and good order, every
Church should obey the laws of the country;
but if any law should impose upon the rights
of the Church in any way, the ruling authorities,
the cardinal and bishops, if the wrong
is national, should unite in a petition to the
United States Congress, clearly stating the
grievance and asking for its redress.<note place='foot'>U. S. Constitution, Amendments, art. i, art. xiv, sec. 1.</note> If
the grievance should be within a State, the
bishop or bishops of the State should present
the matter to the Legislature of the State.
If the President or the Governor has authority
to remedy the matter, go direct to him.
Such was the practice of the wisest of the
Popes.<note place='foot'>Lives of the Popes, Montor, vol. i, p. 94; Life of Leo
XIII, <q>Philippine Question.</q></note> The author never knew of an instance
<pb n='vii'/><anchor id='Pgvii'/>
in which a clergyman having a real
grievance failed in obtaining a full and fair
hearing from the powers that be, from the
President downward. This method seems
to be more in harmony with the relations of
Church and State in a free government, and
more intelligent than to have a convention
of working men, who have little time to
make a study of Church matters, pass resolutions,
the passing of which generally ends
the action of a convention.
</p>

<p>
In the chapters that follow, the author
has refrained from giving a great multitude
of authorities, but has endeavored to give
such as are sufficient to sustain the text.
For example, under the first section, and
many others, a list of citations covering
several pages might be given. That would
add to the expense of the volume and would
not be within its compass. The book will
better fulfil its purpose by clear, brief statements
of the rules of law, and if a reader
desires to investigate further, the citations
given will guide his way.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Charles M. Scanlan.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Milwaukee, January 23, 1909.</hi>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter I. Introduction</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_1'/><hi rend='bold'>1.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Law, Religion.</hi>&mdash;From the dawn of
the science of law it has been influenced by
religion or antagonism to religion. This is
very evident in the ancient laws of Babylonia,
Egypt, Phenicia, Israel, India, and
Ireland. It would be impossible to make a
study of the law of any of said countries
without gaining a knowledge of its religious
system, whether pagan or otherwise.<note place='foot'>The Science of Jurisprudence, Taylor, p. 506; Historical
Jurisprudence, Lee, p. 328.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_2'/><hi rend='bold'>2.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Religions.</hi>&mdash;Ancient nations might be
classified into pagan and those that worshiped
the universal God. However, some
of the nations at one time were pagan and
at other times had a fair conception of the
supernatural. Also, in Egypt, the class of
higher culture and education believed in the
one omnipotent and omniscient Being, but
<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>
the populace, who could be controlled more
readily by flattering them in their notions
and giving their childish conceptions full
sway, worshiped idols.<note place='foot'>Ancient Egypt, Rawlinson, vol. i, p. 323.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_3'/><hi rend='bold'>3.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Authority, Right.</hi>&mdash;In those nations
where the ruling authority had the proper
conception of the Almighty, there was a
strong, persistent growth of law upon the
basis of natural right; while in the pagan
nations laws were arbitrary and despotic.<note place='foot'>Historical Jurisprudence, Lee, pp. 98, 164, 274; History
of England, Lingard, vol. i, c. vii; The Science of Jurisprudence,
Taylor, p. 506.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_4'/><hi rend='bold'>4.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Philosophical Foundations.</hi>&mdash;The laws
of Greece, down to the time of Plato, were
thoroughly pagan. But, following the philosophical
foundations laid by Plato and
Aristotle, unintentionally and unwittingly
the laws of Greece became imbued with the
spirit of natural law.<note place='foot'>Historical Jurisprudence, Lee, p. 257.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_5'/><hi rend='bold'>5.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Rome, Natural Justice.</hi>&mdash;Prior to the
introduction of Grecian law into Rome, the
laws of that nation were pagan. Grecian
law from its introduction to the time of
Octavius was the civilizing element of the
empire. Then it took a turn for the worse,
the element of natural justice being reduced
and the element of arbitrary rule becoming
dominant.<note place='foot'>Historical Jurisprudence, Lee, p. 271.</note>
</p>

<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_6'/><hi rend='bold'>6.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Canon Law.</hi>&mdash;We will now turn to
the first period of canon law, which covers
the early history of the Church up to the
reign of Constantine the Great.<note place='foot'>The Beginnings of Christianity, Shahan, 90.</note>
</p>

<p>
Canon law is composed of the following
elements:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l>1. Holy Scriptures;</l>
<l>2. Ecclesiastical tradition;</l>
<l>3. Decrees of Councils;</l>
<l>4. Bulls and rescripts of Popes;</l>
<l>5. The writings of the Fathers;</l>
<l>6. Civil law.<note place='foot'>Elements of Ecclesiastical Law, Smith.</note></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_7'/><hi rend='bold'>7.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Early Christians.</hi>&mdash;Owing to the persecutions,
the early Christians were, in a
sense, isolated from the State; they held
their property in common, and were governed
in matters among themselves by the
canon law. However, for want of freedom
of discussion and publication, they were
unable, even within a single nation of the
empire, to promulgate a system of canon
law. The foundation of canon law being
laid, its development upon the manumission
of the Church was rapid.<note place='foot'>Historical Jurisprudence, Lee, p. 387; Justinian, Sandar,
p. 21.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_8'/><hi rend='bold'>8.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Persecutions, Defenses.</hi>&mdash;During the
religious persecutions the Christians almost
had law forced into them by surgical operations.
<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>
The necessity for their making defenses
in the Roman tribunals induced many
of them to give Roman law a careful study.
Also, the great number of Christians held
for trial on all sorts of accusations made
that branch of the law of the realm very
lucrative for lawyers, and called into the
field many Christians. Incidently, men
studying for the priesthood made a study
of Roman law with a view to avoiding its
machinations and continuing their functions
as clergymen without being caught in the
net of persecution.<note place='foot'>The Beginnings of Christianity, Shahan.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_9'/><hi rend='bold'>9.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Constantine, Blending the Law.</hi>&mdash;When
Emperor Constantine became a
Christian (325 A.D.), there was a great
change, and the members of the bar and
judges were mostly Christians. It then became
necessary for students of law to study
the principles of divine right as taught in
the Church, and while the books of the civil
law were read by students for the priesthood,
the Scriptures and the works of the
Fathers were read by the students in law,
thus blending the law of the two realms to
some extent.<note place='foot'>Universal Church History, Alzog.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_10'/><hi rend='bold'>10.</hi> <hi rend='italic'><q>Benefit of the Clergy,</q> Ecclesiastical
Court.</hi>&mdash;As the old Roman Empire decayed
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
and its power waned, the new one,
<q>The Holy Roman Empire,</q> gradually implanted
itself in southwestern Europe. The
humiliation that the divine law and the
clergy suffered in being brought into the
common courts gave rise to a system of
courts within the Church for the purpose of
enforcing her morals, doctrines, and discipline.
Those courts were established in all
Christian countries and had jurisdiction of
all felonies excepting arson, treason, and a
few other crimes that from time to time
were put under the special jurisdiction of
the state courts. Whenever a clergyman
was arrested for a crime, he pleaded the
<q>benefit of the clergy,</q> and his case was
transferred from the state court to the
ecclesiastical court. Also, when a clergyman
was convicted in the state court of any
crime for which the punishment was death,
he could plead the <q>benefit of the clergy,</q>
which was a protection against his execution.<note place='foot'>Law Dictionary, Bouvier, <q>Benefit of Clergy,</q> <q>Canon
Law</q>; Blackstone, vol. i, p. 460, vol. iii, p. 61.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_11'/><hi rend='bold'>11.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Estates, Guardianship.</hi>&mdash;Besides the
jurisdiction already referred to, the ecclesiastical
court had jurisdiction over the settlement
of estates and the guardianship of
<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>
children, which varied in different countries
and was very indefinite in some of
them.<note place='foot'>Blackstone, vol. i, p. 461.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_12'/><hi rend='bold'>12.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Middle Ages, Common Law.</hi>&mdash;During
the Middle Ages there was a constant
effort on behalf of the ecclesiastical courts
to extend their jurisdiction, and a counter-effort
on behalf of the state courts to assume
jurisdiction of cases under the ecclesiastical
law. In England, from the conquest of
William the Conqueror to the Reformation,
the extension of the jurisdiction of the
ecclesiastical courts brought the new element
of English common law into the canon
law; and much of the canon law, following
the jurisdiction assumed by the state courts,
became the common law of the kingdom of
England.<note place='foot'>Justinian, Sandar, p. 21; Cyc, vol. viii, p. 366, vol.
xiv, p. 1228; Eq. Jurisprudence, Pomeroy, vol. i, p. 1;
The Science of Jurisprudence, Taylor, p. 255 et seq; Blackstone,
vol. i, pp. 18-20, 63; Kent, vol. i, p. 10; English Constitution,
Creasy.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_13'/><hi rend='bold'>13.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Gratian, Reformation.</hi>&mdash;The canon
law reached its full development in the
twelfth century, when Gratian, the Blackstone
of his age, compiled the system, but
it subsequently lost its influence when the
Reformation prevailed.<note place='foot'>Blackstone, vol. i, p. 82, vol. iv, c. 33; The Science of
Jurisprudence, Taylor, p. 337; Conflict of Laws, Wharton,
sec. 172.</note>
</p>

<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_14'/><hi rend='bold'>14.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bologna.</hi>&mdash;The great school of jurisprudence,
both of canon and civil law, was
located at Bologna, Italy, which reached its
zenith in the thirteenth century. To it students
flocked from Western Europe, and
from it were obtained the professors of law
in the universities of England and other
countries.<note place='foot'>The American Cyclopedia, <q>Bologna.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_15'/><hi rend='bold'>15.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church and State.</hi>&mdash;In most of the
Christian countries, the Church and State
were united, and many of the judges in the
civil courts were clergymen.<note place='foot'>The Science of Jurisprudence, Taylor, p. 238.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_16'/><hi rend='bold'>16.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>England, Roman Law.</hi>&mdash;On account
of England's being subject to Rome in its
earliest age, and afterward because of its
being conquered by France, the Roman law
was pretty thoroughly intermixed with the
native English law in the minor matters of
the people, and governed in the more important
ones.<note place='foot'>Blackstone, vol. i, pp. 18-20, 79, vol. iv, c. 33.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_17'/><hi rend='bold'>17.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>America, English Law, Civil Law.</hi>&mdash;The
portions of America that were settled
by the English, which included the original
thirteen colonies, were under the English
law. In Virginia the Episcopal Church,
which was then the church of England, was
made the church of state. Canada and
that portion of the United States formerly
<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>
known as Louisiana were governed by the
civil law of France. Wherever the French
government had no authority or civil officers,
the government was directly under the missionaries
of the Church.<note place='foot'>Commentaries, Kent, vol. i, c. xi, pp. 342, 473, 515, 525-544,
vol. ii, p. 27; Origin and Nature of the Constitution
and Government of U. S., U. S. Sup. Ct. Reps., 9 L. Ed.,
873.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_18'/><hi rend='bold'>18.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Religious Tolerance, Established
Church.</hi>&mdash;The English law and English
ideals prevailing in the original thirteen colonies,<note place='foot'>Commentaries, Kent, vol. i, p. 472; Blackstone, vol. i,
p. 107.</note>
there was a strong effort made by
many of the delegates to the constitutional
convention to have the Episcopal Church
made the established church of the new republic.
Thomas Jefferson and James Madison
were probably the strongest opponents
of the scheme, and outside of the great Carroll
of Carrollton, they were the most earnest
advocates of religious tolerance. The necessity
for the fathers of this republic to be
united, and their being unable to unite upon
any church, caused the idea of an established
church to be eliminated. Thus was established
in our republic the freedom of conscience
and the guarantee that no one shall
be persecuted on account of his religious
convictions.<note place='foot'>Commentaries, Kent, vol. ii, pp. 35-37; Conflict of
Laws, Wharton (3rd ed.), vol. ii, pp. 1327-8.</note>
</p>

<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_19'/><hi rend='bold'>19.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Tribunals.</hi>&mdash;The ecclesiastical courts
as a part of the state system and the <q>benefit
of the clergy,</q> have been abolished in England
and America. However, as we shall
see further on, tribunals in the nature of the
ecclesiastical court exist in churches and
fraternities of all kinds in the United
States.<note place='foot'>Law of Fraternities, Scanlan, ch. xxiv; Conflict of
Laws, Wharton, sec. 109; Baxter v. McDonald, 155 N. Y.,
83; 49 N. E., 667; Morris v. Dart, 67 S. C, 338; 45 S. E.,
753; 100 Am. St. R., 734; Terrett v. Taylor, 13 U. S., 43;
3 L. Ed., 650.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter II. What Is A Church?</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_20'/><hi rend='bold'>20.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church, Religious Society.</hi>&mdash;Bouvier's
definition of <q>Church</q> is: <q>A society
of persons who profess the Christian religion.</q>
Chief Justice Shaw's definition is:
<q>The church is neither a corporation nor a
quasi-corporation, but a body of persons
associated together for certain objects under
the law. An aggregate body of individuals
associated together in connection with a religious
society. The term religious society
may with propriety be applied in a certain
sense to a church as that of religious association,
religious union, or the like; yet in
the sense church was and is used in our law,
it is synonymous with parish or precinct and
designates an incorporated society created
and maintained for the support and maintenance
of public worship. In this, its legal
sense, a church is not a religious society. It
is a separate body formed within such parish
or religious society whose rights and usages
are well known and to a great extent defined
and established by law.</q><note place='foot'>Weld v. May, 9 Cushing, Mass., 181.</note>
</p>

<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_21'/><hi rend='bold'>21.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Doctrine, Constitution.</hi>&mdash;A church
in law is a mere fraternal organization. It
may or may not have a written constitution,
but it must have some central doctrine as its
foundation or constitution.<note place='foot'>Martin v. State, 65 Tenn., 234.</note> Many of the
Protestant denominations claim that the
entire Bible is their constitution. The Jews
may be said to consider the Old Testament
as their constitution. All revealed truths
may be said to be the constitution of the
Catholic Church,<note place='foot'>A Manual of Catholic Theology, Wilhelm and Scannell,
p. xvii, et seq.</note> and when a doctrine concerning
faith or morals is authoritatively
declared by the Church to be a truth, it
becomes a dogma.<note place='foot'>A Catholic Dictionary, Addis and Arnold, <q>Dogma.</q></note> The Apostles' Creed is
an example of several dogmatic truths. The
code of the Church is the Ten Commandments.
A few sects, by a majority vote,
make and change their constitutions at will.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_22'/><hi rend='bold'>22.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>By-Laws.</hi>&mdash;By-laws of the different
religious organizations differ widely, from
the decrees of the great councils of the
Catholic Church down to the vote of the
congregation of an independent denomination.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_23'/><hi rend='bold'>23.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church, Religious Society.</hi>&mdash;A
church in one sense is more limited than a
religious society; the latter comprehending
<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>
all the members of the same faith. Even in
the Catholic Church we hear of the Church
of France, the Coptic Church, etc., spoken
of in this sense. And in a still more limited
sense we use the word as a synonym for
parish. However, when the word <q>the</q> is
used before church written with a capital
letter, Catholics understand it to apply to
the Roman Catholic Church in its entirety,
while some non-Catholics apply it to Christendom.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_24'/><hi rend='bold'>24.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church, Christians, Religion.</hi>&mdash;The
missions established in California prior to
its admission into the Union were, in law,
practically independent organizations and
had no legal connection with the Church.
Every society organized for the purpose of
propagating the practice of religion may be
a church in law.<note place='foot'>In re St. Louis Inst. of Christian Science, 27 Mo. App.,
633.</note> The courts have made a
distinction between Unitarians, who are
considered Christians, and Deists, Theists,
Free Religionists, and other infidels.<note place='foot'>Hale v. Everett, 53 N. H., 9.</note> A
sect or denomination without a given system
of faith is not recognized as a religion in
law.<note place='foot'>State v. Trustees, 7 Ohio St., 58.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_25'/><hi rend='bold'>25.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Doctrine, Standard.</hi>&mdash;To ascertain
the tenets and doctrines of a church, resort
<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>
must be had to history and to prior and contemporary
standard writings of its members
on theology.<note place='foot'>Kniskern v. Lutheran Church, 1 Sandford, N. Y., Ch.
439.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_26'/><hi rend='bold'>26.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Ecclesiastical Corporations, Religious,
Quasi-public Corporations.</hi>&mdash;Ecclesiastical
corporations, in the sense in which
the word is used in England, Germany, and
France, are unknown to the United States,
their places being supplied by religious societies
or corporations considered as private
bodies, in contradistinction to public or
quasi-public corporations, such as towns,
villages, cities, counties, and state. Therefore,
the law of private corporations applies
to religious societies and churches.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_27'/><hi rend='bold'>27.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sect, Sectarianism.</hi>&mdash;The Supreme
Court of Nevada defines <q>sect</q> as follows:
<q>A religious sect is a body or number of
persons united in tenets, but constituting a
distinct organization or party, by holding
sentiments or doctrines different from those
of other sects or people. In the sense intended
in the constitution, every sect of that
character is <q>sectarian</q> and all members
thereof are sectarians.</q><note place='foot'>State v. Hallock, 16 Nev., 373.</note> In Pennsylvania
the court adopted the definitions given in
the Standard and in Webster's
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
dictionaries.<note place='foot'>Stephenson v. Hanyon, 7 Dist. Ct. Rep. Pa., 585.</note> The Supreme Court of Missouri,
citing Webster's and the Century dictionaries,
gave the following additional definition
of sectarianism: <q>Sectarianism includes
adherence to a distinct political party,
as much as to a separate sect.</q><note place='foot'>State v. Board, 134 Mo., 296; 35 S. W., 617.</note> The Presbyterians<note place='foot'>Synod v. State, 2 S. Dak., 366; 50 N. W., 632; 14 L. R.
A., 418.</note>
and the <q>Shakers</q><note place='foot'>Stebbins v. Jennings, 10 Pick., Mass., 172.</note> have been
adjudged sects.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_28'/>
<hi rend='bold'>28.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sectarian.</hi>&mdash;<q>Sectarian</q> has received
more contradictory constructions
than any other equally simple word in the
English language. In Wisconsin the <q>King
James</q> Bible was held to be a sectarian
book;<note place='foot'>State v. District Board, 76 Wis., 177; 44 N. W., 967;
20 Am. St. Rep., 41; 7 L. R. A., 330.</note> but in Kentucky it was held that
neither the Douay nor the <q>King James</q>
Bible was a sectarian book.<note place='foot'>Hackett v. Brooksville, 27 Ky. L., 1021; 87 N. W., 792;
69 L. R. A., 592.</note> The Missouri
court extended sectarian so as to apply to
the Republican party.<note place='foot'>State v. Board, 134 Mo., 296; 35 S. W., 617; 56 Am. St.
Rep., 503.</note> In Illinois an industrial
school for girls in which the Catholic
Sisters were employed as teachers, was held
a sectarian institution;<note place='foot'>County v. Industrial School, 125 Ill., 540; 18 N. E.,
183; 1 L. R. A., 437; 8 Am. St. Rep., 386.</note> while in Wisconsin,
<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>
the <q>Wisconsin Industrial School for Girls,</q>
a private corporation organized and conducted
by Protestant ladies, has received
appropriations from the State and has had
its reports published at state's expense, as a
non-sectarian institution.<note place='foot'><q>Wis. Industrial School for Girls,</q> Wisconsin Blue
Book. Session Laws of Wis., 1907, p. 1416 (index to
Acts). Wis. Industrial School for Girls v. Clark Co., 103
Wis., 651; 79 N. W., 422.</note> In New York
the religious garb of the Catholic Sisters
was practically decided to be sectarian;<note place='foot'>O'Connor v. Hendrick, 184 N. Y., 421; 77 N. E., 612.</note> but
in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin it was decided
that the dress of the Sisters was not
sectarian.<note place='foot'>Hysong v. Gallitzen, 164 Pa., 629; 30 At., 482; 44 Am.
St. Rep., 623; 26 L. R. A., 203; Dorner v. School Dist.,
118 N. W., 353 (Nov. 27, 1908). A good résumé of the
subject is given in a footnote in 105 Am. St. R., 151.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_29'/><hi rend='bold'>29.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Worship, Services, Mass.</hi>&mdash;Any act
of adoration, reverence, praise, thanks,
honor, or veneration given to God, is religious
worship.<note place='foot'>Stafford v. State, 45 So., 673. A Protestant Dictionary,
Wright &amp; Neil, and Webster's Dictionary, <q>Worship.</q> A
Catholic Dictionary, Addis and Arnold, <q>Latria.</q></note> A Sunday-school where the
Bible was read and a hymn sung and a state
temperance camp-meeting where a prayer
was said and hymns were sung, were held to
be places of divine worship.<note place='foot'>Gass's App., 73 Pa., 46; 13 Am. Rep., 726; State v.
Norris, 59 N. H., 536.</note> But a priest's
house where he had a room fitted up for a
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
chapel, was held to be not a place of worship.<note place='foot'>St. Joseph's Church v. Assessors, 12 R. I., 19; 34 Am.
R., 597; Gerke v. Purcell, 25 Ohio, 229; Am. &amp; Eng. Ency.
of L., <q>Worship.</q></note>
It is very difficult to draw a line&mdash;no matter
what curves you may give it&mdash;between the
Protestant system of worship, which consists
of the reading of the Bible, the singing
of hymns, and the reciting of prayers, and
such services in the public schools. Also,
there would seem to be no <emph>legal</emph> difference
between a prayer said or a hymn sung by a
Catholic and a Protestant. As we have no
established church in this country, we have
no standard for prayers, hymns, or music.<note place='foot'>Ante, <ref target='Para_28'>28</ref>; Post, <ref target='Para_346'>346</ref>.</note>
</p>

<p>
More solemn and impressive than her
prayers adapted for schools is the Mass of
the Catholic Church, defined thus: <q>The
Mass is the unbloody sacrifice of the body
and blood of Christ.</q><note place='foot'>Catholic Catechism.</note> It is defined in 26
Cyc, 940, as follows: <q>A religious ceremonial
or observance of the Catholic
Church;<note place='foot'>Sherman v. Baker, 20 R. I., 446; 40 At., 11; 40 L. R.
A., 717.</note> a Catholic ceremonial celebrated
by the priest in open church, where all who
choose may be present and participate
therein;<note place='foot'>Webster v. Surghow, 69 N. H., 380; 45 At., 139; 48
L. R. A., 100.</note> the sacrifice in the sacrament of
<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>
the Eucharist or the consecration and oblation
of the Host.</q><note place='foot'>Coleman v. O'Leary, 114 Ky., 388; 70 S. W., 1068.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_30'/><hi rend='bold'>30.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Parish.</hi>&mdash;A parish has two meanings.
In some States it is a minor division
of public territory; but in States where there
is no such division of territory, the State
using instead <q>county</q> or <q>town,</q> a parish
rather applies to the people belonging to a
particular church, who worship at a particular
place. It is in the latter sense in
which a parish should be construed in church
law.<note place='foot'>McEntee v. Bonacum, 66 Neb., 651; 92 N. W., 633.</note>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Parishioner.</hi>&mdash;A parishioner must be defined
in harmony with the meaning of the
word <q>parish.</q><note place='foot'>American and English Encyclopedia of Law, <q>Parishoner.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_31'/><hi rend='bold'>31.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Clergyman.</hi>&mdash;A clergyman is a man
in holy orders or one who has been ordained
in accordance with the rules of his church
or denomination.<note place='foot'>Ibid., <q>Minister</q>; 7 Cyc, 189, <q>Clergy.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_32'/><hi rend='bold'>32.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Minister.</hi>&mdash;A minister is one who
acts as, or performs some of the functions
of, a clergyman.<note place='foot'>Ibid.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_33'/><hi rend='bold'>33.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Rector or Pastor.</hi>&mdash;A rector or
pastor is a clergyman who has charge of a
parish.<note place='foot'>Ibid.</note>
</p>

<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_34'/><hi rend='bold'>34.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Religion.</hi>&mdash;Religion is still further
distinguished, but not very satisfactorily defined,
for the reason that etymologists have
not agreed upon the derivation of the word.
When the matter was brought before our
courts and it became necessary to give a
definition, the highest court in our country
gave the following: <q>The term <q>religion</q>
has reference to one's views of his relations
to his Creator, and to the obligations they
impose of reverence for His being and character,
and of obedience to His will. It is
often confounded with <hi rend='italic'>cultus</hi> or form of
worship of a particular sect, but it is distinguishable
from the latter.</q><note place='foot'>Davies v. Beason, 133 U. S., 333; 33 L. Ed., 637.</note> One of our
highest courts held that <q>religion,</q> as used
in the trust provision in a will for the purchase
and distribution of religious books or
reading as they shall be deemed best, means
<q>Christian.</q><note place='foot'>Simpson v. Welcome, 72 Me., 496.</note> But the Supreme Court of
another State held that <q>religion</q> is not
equivalent to <q>Christian</q> religion, but
means the religion of any class of men.<note place='foot'>Board v. Minor, 23 Ohio St., 250.</note>
Judge Willis defines <q>religion</q> thus: <q>It is
what a man honestly believes in and approves
of and thinks it his duty to inculcate
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
on others whether with regard to this world
or the next; a belief in any system of retribution
by an overruling power. It must, I
think, include the principle of gratitude to
an active power who can confer blessings.</q><note place='foot'>Baxter v. Langley, 38 L. J., M. C., 1.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter III. Constitutional Law</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_35'/><hi rend='bold'>35.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Religious Tests.</hi>&mdash;The constitution
of the United States provides that <q>no religious
test shall ever be required as a qualification
to any office or public trust under
the United States.</q><note place='foot'>Art. vi.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_36'/><hi rend='bold'>36.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Test Oath, Attainder.</hi>&mdash;No test oath
of any kind, whether religious or otherwise,
can be required of a citizen of the United
States. Therefore the test oath of Congress
requiring an officer to swear that he never
voluntarily bore arms against the United
States, was held unconstitutional. Exclusion
from any vocation on account of past conduct
is punishment and contrary to the constitution
on the subject of bills of attainder.<note place='foot'>Ex parte Garland, 4 Wallace, 333; 18 L. Ed., 366.</note>
But there is a limitation to this rule to prevent
the open violation of the laws of the
United States or any State under the cloak
of religion.<note place='foot'>Church of Latter-Day Saints v. U. S., 136 U. S., 1; 34
L. Ed., 478; 140 U. S., 665; 35 L. Ed., 592.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_37'/><hi rend='bold'>37.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Establishment of Religion, Free Exercise.</hi>&mdash;The
first amendment to the United
<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>
States constitution provides that <q>Congress
shall make no law respecting an establishment
of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise
thereof.</q>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_38'/><hi rend='bold'>38.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sovereignty, States, Bigamy.</hi>&mdash;The
courts have held that this provision applies
to Congress only, and can not be construed
to interfere with the sovereignty of the several
States; that the constitutional guarantee
of religious freedom was not intended to prohibit
legislation against polygamy; and that
section 5352 of the United States Revised
Statutes against bigamy, is constitutional.
Also, that on a trial for bigamy in Utah, a
man who was living in polygamy was not
competent to serve as a juror.<note place='foot'>Reynolds v. United States, 8 Otto, 145; 25 L. Ed., 244.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_39'/><hi rend='bold'>39.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church of the Latter-Day Saints.</hi>&mdash;In
1851 the assembly of the so-called State
of Deseret, which subsequently became the
territory of Utah, incorporated <q>the Church
of the Latter-Day Saints.</q> In 1887 Congress
repealed the act of incorporation and
abrogated the charter, which the Supreme
Court held was within its plenary powers.
The pretense of religious belief can not deprive
Congress of the power to prohibit
polygamy and all other open offenses against
the enlightened sentiments of mankind.<note place='foot'>Church of Latter-Day Saints v. U. S., 136 U. S., 1; 34
L. Ed., 478; 140 U. S., 665; 35 L. Ed., 592.</note>
</p>

<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_40'/><hi rend='bold'>40.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Crime, Religion.</hi>&mdash;The law prohibiting
any person who is a polygamist or
bigamist, or who teaches, advises, counsels,
or encourages the same, from holding any
office of honor, trust, or profit, is constitutional;
and a crime is none the less so, nor
less odious, because it is sanctioned by what
any particular sect may designate as religion.
A state has the right to legislate for the punishment
of all acts inimical to the peace, good
order, and morals of society.<note place='foot'>Davis v. Beason, 133 U. S., 333; 33 L. Ed., 637.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_41'/><hi rend='bold'>41.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Donation, Hostile, Religion.</hi>&mdash;On
the other hand the United States Supreme
Court declared the legal right of donees of a
college to make as a condition of the donation
that all ecclesiastics, missionaries, and
ministers of any sort, should be excluded
from holding any station of duty in the college
or even visiting the same. The condition
being only negatively derogatory and
hostile to the Christian religion, did not
make the devise for the foundation of the
college void.<note place='foot'>Fenelon v. Girard, 2 Howard, 127; 11 L. Ed., 205.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_42'/><hi rend='bold'>42.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Christian Scientist.</hi>&mdash;A law requiring
a person to be a physician to treat the
sick, is constitutional; and the defense of a
person who has no license to practise, that
he is a Christian Scientist, is not good. Also,
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
a parent must furnish a doctor for his sick
child, notwithstanding that he believes in
prayer cure.<note place='foot'>State v. Marble, 72 Ohio St., 21; 73 N. E., 1063; State
v. Chenoweth, 163 Ind., 94; 71 N. E., 197; People v. Reetz,
127 Mich, 87; 86 N. W., 396; 59 Cen. L. J., 202; 68 L. R.
A., 432.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_43'/><hi rend='bold'>43.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Protestant.</hi>&mdash;In the early days, under
the constitution of the State, the courts
of Massachusetts practically held that the
Protestant religion was the religion of that
State.<note place='foot'>Thaxter v. Jones, 4 Mass., 570.</note> Also, the constitution of New
Hampshire referred to different Christians,
and the court in construing the terms <q>Roman
Catholic</q> and <q>Protestant,</q> held that
any one who did not assent to the truth of
Christianity as a distinct system of religion,
could not be classed as either. The court
stated that Mohammedans, Jews, pagans,
and infidels, are neither <q>Catholics</q> nor
<q>Protestants.</q> The term <q>Protestant,</q> as
used in the constitution of New Hampshire,
includes all Christians who deny the authority
of the Pope of Rome. When the children
of Protestant parents renounce that religion,
and voluntarily accept another, they
cease to be Protestants.<note place='foot'>Hale v. Everett, 53 N. H., 9.</note> At present under
the constitution of New Hampshire, the legislature
may authorize towns or parishes to
<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>
provide for the support of Protestant ministers.<note place='foot'>Federal and State Constitutions, Stimson.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_44'/><hi rend='bold'>44.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Hospitals, Sisters, Appropriation.</hi>&mdash;In
1864, Providence Hospital, of Washington,
was incorporated by an act of Congress,
for general hospital purposes. In 1897,
$30,000 was appropriated for the District of
Columbia to put up two isolation buildings
in connection with two hospitals in that city,
to be operated as a part of such hospitals.
Providence Hospital was selected as one, and
because it was in charge of Sisters of the
Roman Catholic Church, the right of Congress
to make the appropriation was disputed.
Among other things, Judge Peackham
says: <q>Whether the individuals who
compose the corporation under its charter
happen to be all Roman Catholics, or all
Methodists, or all Presbyterians, or Unitarians,
or members of any other religious
organization, or of no organization at all, is
of not the slightest consequence with reference
to the law of its corporation, nor can
the individual beliefs upon religious matters
of the various incorporators be inquired
into.</q> The appropriation was <q>for two hospital
buildings to be constructed in the discretion
of the commissioners of the District
of Columbia on the grounds of two hospitals
<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>
and to be operated as a part of such hospitals.</q><note place='foot'>Bradford v. Roberts, 175 U. S., 291; 44 L. Ed., 168; 20
Sup. Ct. R., 121; Municipality of Ponce v. The Roman
Catholic Apostolic Church, 28 Sup. Ct. R., 737 (1908).</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_45'/><hi rend='bold'>45.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Constitution, Rights.</hi>&mdash;The provisions
in the constitution do not in any way interfere
with property rights obtained by a
church organization prior to its adoption.<note place='foot'>Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43; 3 L. Ed., 650; Municipality,
etc., v. Church, 28 Sup. Ct. R., 737.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_46'/><hi rend='bold'>46.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Aid, Contracts.</hi>&mdash;Under the constitution
of the United States, Congress cannot
make appropriations for nor give aid to any
denomination. Also, similar provisions are
in many of the constitutions of the States.
However, many cases arise out of contracts
which border upon these various rules, and
in some States the constitutional provision of
the State is such that the State Legislature
may legislate concerning religion and give
certain aid and support thereto. Paying rent
to a congregation for a school-room is not
an appropriation or aid to a church contrary
to the constitution.<note place='foot'>Millard v. Board, 19 Ill., 48; Dorner v. Dist., 118 N. W.,
353.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_47'/><hi rend='bold'>47.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Protestant Teacher, Tax.</hi>&mdash;Formerly
every parish in Massachusetts was obliged
to elect and support a Protestant teacher,
and might erect churches and parsonages.
To provide the expenses thereof, a tax
<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>
might be assessed upon the polls of the
inhabitants.<note place='foot'>Ashby v. Wellington, 25 Mass., 524.</note> Until 1890 New Hampshire
permitted a tax to be levied in towns for religious
purposes. It is still legal under the
New Hampshire constitution to tax the inhabitants
for the purpose of supporting
Protestant teachers, but not to support a
teacher of any other denomination.<note place='foot'>Federal and State Constitutions, Stimson, p. 139; Hale
v. Everett, 53 N. H., 9.</note> A section
of land in every township in Ohio was
set apart for religious societies, in which
they all shared equally.<note place='foot'>State v. Trustees, 11 Ohio, 24.</note> Vermont had a
similar provision.<note place='foot'>First v. Leach, 35 Vt., 108.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_48'/><hi rend='bold'>48.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Office, God.</hi>&mdash;The constitutions of
Arkansas, Mississippi, North Carolina,
South Carolina, and Texas, prohibit a man
from holding office who denies the existence
of a Supreme Being; and the constitutions
of Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky, and Tennessee,
make all clergymen ineligible to hold
a civil office.<note place='foot'>Federal and State Constitutions, Stimson, p. 139.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_49'/><hi rend='bold'>49.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Religious Liberty, Bible, Religious
Garb, Wages.</hi>&mdash;The authorities are not uniform
as to what constitutes a violation of religious
liberty. The question of whether
the reading of the Bible in the public schools
is a violation of the constitution, is an open
<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>
one in some States and in others the courts
have passed upon it, some holding that it is
a violation of the constitution,<note place='foot'>State v. District, 76 Wis., 177; 44 N. W., 967; 20 Am.
St. R., 41; 7 L. R. A., 330.</note> and some
holding that it is not.<note place='foot'>Church v. Bullock, 100 S. W. (Tex.), 1025; Millard v.
Board, 121 Ill., 297; 10 N. E., 669; Hackett v. Brooksville,
27 Ky. L., 1021; 87 S. W., 792; 69 L. R. A., 592; 61 C.
L. J., 49.</note> The weight of authority
seems to permit the reading of the
<q>King James</q> Bible,<note place='foot'>Church v. Bullock, 100 S. W., 1025.</note> and where portions
only are read, as in <q>reading books</q> prepared
for school work, or where the children
are not obliged to be present during the exercises,
the cases seem to be unanimous that
it is not a violation of the constitution.<note place='foot'>Moore v. Monroe, 64 Ia., 367; 20 N. W., 475; 66 L. R.
A., 166; 52 Am. R., 444; Pfeiffer v. Board, 118 Mich., 560;
77 N. W., 250; 42 L. R. A., 536.</note> In
Pennsylvania the court held that while Sisters
in their religious garb might be teachers
in the public schools, they could not give instruction
in the Catholic religion at the
schoolhouse before or after school hours, or
at any other time use the school building for
religious purposes. Also, in Wisconsin the
court decided that while a portion of a parochial
school building might be leased for
public school purposes and the Sisters be employed
therein as teachers, religious exercises
and instructions could not be given in
<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>
such leased premises.<note place='foot'>Hysong v. Gallitzin Borough School, 164 Pa. St., 629;
30 At., 482; 26 L. R. A., 203; Dorner v. School District,
118 N. W., Wis., 353 (Nov. 27, 1908).</note> In New York it
was held not only that Sisters could not wear
their religious garb or pray in school, but
that they could not collect wages for teaching.<note place='foot'>O'Connor v. Hendricks, 96 N. Y. S., 161.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter IV. Statutory Law</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_50'/><hi rend='bold'>50.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Wisconsin, Mississippi, New York.</hi>&mdash;The
statutory law of the different States
of the Union is so varied and the laws of
one State are of so little interest to the people
of another that it would be almost useless
and beyond the boundaries of this work to
give the substance of the various statutes.
In some States there is a limitation upon the
real estate that a church or charitable organization
may hold, and in other States
there is no limitation whatever. Wisconsin,
perhaps, occupies the extreme of greatest
liberality, by not only allowing full freedom
in everything relating to religion and charity,
but it further excepts from the limitation
all rights of alienation of real estate granted
or devised to a charitable association or to
literary or charitable corporations organized
under the law of the State. The State of
Mississippi probably stands at the other extreme
both in the narrowness of its constitution
and statutory law, and prohibits any
<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>
devise or bequest of any personal property
or real estate in favor of any religious or
ecclesiastical corporation or any religious or
ecclesiastical society. Neither does it exempt
a clergyman, physician, or lawyer,
from examination as a witness concerning
information that he obtained in the performance
of his functions or duties as such. Its
judges, however, are more liberal than its
legislators, and I know of no instance in
which a clergyman, physician, or lawyer, as
a witness, was sent to jail for contempt of
court for not divulging information obtained
in his professional capacity. Probably
New York has the most complete code<note place='foot'>Ch. 723, L. 1895.</note>
relating to religious corporations.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_51'/><hi rend='bold'>51.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Real Estate, Parish, Diocese, Taxation.</hi>&mdash;It
is very important that a congregation
about to purchase real estate should examine
and understand the statutory law of
the State governing the powers and authority
of the Church as a civil organization. In
some States there is no special law for incorporating
religious societies; while in most
States there are special provisions therefor.
For this reason, I emphasize the fact that no
parish or clergyman is justified in organizing
a congregation or purchasing land without
first knowing the law of that particular
<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>
State. But generally it is best that each congregation
be incorporated and that its property
be held in the name of the corporation,
so that the debts of one corporation will not
embarrass the diocese, and that bequests and
gifts made to a church may be enforced in
the courts. The proceedings to incorporate
are fully stated in the statutes of each State.
One of the things of the utmost importance
is that any notice to be given must be given
strictly as required by law.<note place='foot'>West v. Otteson, 80 Wis., 62; 49 N. W., 24; Ferraria
v. Vasconcellos, 23 Ill., 456; 31 Ill., 25.</note> Another is to
incorporate in the way that avoids taxation.<note place='foot'>Gitzhoffen v. Sisters, 88 Pac., 691; 32 Utah, 46; Trustees
v. B. P. O. E., 122 Wis., 452; 100 N. W., 837.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_52'/><hi rend='bold'>52.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Riot, Damages.</hi>&mdash;Under a statute
providing that a person whose property is
destroyed by riot may bring suit against the
county for damages, a corporation for religious
purposes, as well as an individual, has
a right of action.<note place='foot'>Hermits v. County, 7 Pa. L. J., 124.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_53'/><hi rend='bold'>53.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Use, Change, Parsonage, Discipline,
Doctrine, Curate.</hi>&mdash;When a fee simple is
acquired by a religious corporation, without
restriction as to quantity, but limiting the
purpose of its use, a subsequent Legislature,
with the consent of the corporation, has
power to change or abrogate altogether the
restrictions as to the use of the land.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Manning, 72 Md., 116; 19 At., 599.</note> And
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
the Legislature may empower the church
corporation to convey a house devised to it
for a parsonage with a condition that it be
kept in repair, and invest the proceeds in
other property to be held for the same purpose.<note place='foot'>In re Van Horn, 18 R. I., 389.</note>
A State legislature can not interfere
in church discipline and doctrine, as by legislating
what shall constitute a curate in the
Catholic Church.<note place='foot'>Wardens v. Blanc, 8 Rob, La., 51.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter V. Unincorporated Church Societies</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_54'/><hi rend='bold'>54.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Partners, Debt, Liability.</hi>&mdash;Where
several go into an undertaking without first
being incorporated they are usually liable as
partners, each one being responsible for the
whole debt. In some States the same liability
exists where an attempt has been made
to incorporate, but there was a failure to
comply fully with the law.<note place='foot'>Rutherford v. Hill, 22 Or., 218; 29 Pac., 546; 17 L. R.
A., 549; 56 Cen. L. J., 221; Wechselberg v. Flour, 64 F., 90.</note> There is some
authority freeing the individual members of
a religious society from liability for the
debts of such society,<note place='foot'>Jewett v. Thames Bank, 16 Conn., 511.</note> and holding that an
agent of such society could not bind the society
in their associated capacity by a promissory
note,<note place='foot'>Jeffts v. York, 10 Cushing, 392.</note> but the rule is that the members
of an unincorporated society who actively
incur lawful debts or ratify them after their
creation are personally liable. There are
exceptions to this rule by statute or decisions
<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>
in a few States.<note place='foot'>Allen v. M. E. Church, 127 Ia., 96; 102 N. W., 808; 69
L. R. A., 255; Sawyer v. Methodist, 18 Vt., 405.</note> Also, the law of personal
liability is settled in England.<note place='foot'>Wise v. Perpetual Trustees, House of Lords, 57 C. L.
J., 104.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_55'/><hi rend='bold'>55.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Pastor, Salary.</hi>&mdash;In a late case in
Wisconsin where a pastor had a contract
with his congregation as to his salary, after
the clergyman's death his heirs recovered
the unpaid part of his salary in an action
against a few of the individual members of
the congregation.<note place='foot'>Sheehy v. Blake, 77 Wis., 394; 46 N. W., 537; 69 L.
R. A., 255.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_56'/><hi rend='bold'>56.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Building, Materials.</hi>&mdash;The members
of the building committee of an unincorporated
church are liable for materials purchased
by them for the church, notwithstanding
that the seller charged the materials
in the name of the church, and that
at the time that the purchase was made, he
was told that the money for payment was
to be raised by subscription among the congregation.<note place='foot'>Clark v. O'Rourke, 111 Mich., 108; 69 N. W., 147.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_57'/><hi rend='bold'>57.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Management, Disability.</hi>&mdash;An unincorporated
society is managed by those who
are competent to transact their own business.
Therefore, it would seem that members
must be men over twenty-one years of
age, and not under legal disability. The
<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>
minor sons in a family who have continued
their attendance at the religious services
until of full age, are considered members.<note place='foot'>Bradford v. Cary, 5 Me., 339; Lynch v. Pfeiffer, 110
N. Y., 33; 17 N. E., 402; In re St. Luke's, 17 Philadelphia,
261.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_58'/><hi rend='bold'>58.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Shakers, Sect, Catholic Church,
Trustees, Funds.</hi>&mdash;Although the sect called
Shakers is not incorporated, yet it has been
allowed to take and hold property for church
purposes.<note place='foot'>Addison v. Brock, 3 Me., 243.</note> In Massachusetts, by statute, a
sect may take and hold property for religious
purposes without incorporation.<note place='foot'>Stebbins v. Jennings, 10 Pickering, 172.</note> The
Roman Catholic Church is a recognized public
corporation by most nations, including
the United States.<note place='foot'>Municipality of Ponce v. Roman Catholic Church, 28
Sup. Ct. R., 737; 6 Cyc, 915.</note> No individual member
of any such body has any title to the lands
it holds, but the lands are the property of
the society in its aggregate capacity.<note place='foot'>Ferraria v. Vasconcellos, 31 Ill., 25; Mason v. Muncaster,
9 Wheaton, 468; 6 L. Ed., 131.</note> After
property has been acquired, the trustees
have no right to distribute it among the
members, as such power could not be conferred
upon them by a majority vote even
when approved by an order of the court.
The contributors did not intend their funds
to be so disposed of, and if they failed to
attain the use intended, they must be returned
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
to the donors, and if not called for,
would escheat to the state.<note place='foot'>Wheaton v. Gates, 18 N. Y., 395.</note> Where an unincorporated
society has purchased property
and taken the title thereto in the name of
one of its members, when it subsequently
incorporates such member may be required
to execute a conveyance to the corporation.<note place='foot'>South v. Yates, 1 Hoff. N. Y., 142; Miller v. Chittendon,
42 Ia., 252; Newmarket v. Smart, 45 N. H., 87; Evangelical
Appeal, 35 Pa. St., 316.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_59'/><hi rend='bold'>59.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Contract, Binding.</hi>&mdash;Persons forming
a religious society may make a contract
for the support of its minister by a majority
vote.<note place='foot'>Congregational Society v. Swan, 2 Vt., 222.</note> When such unincorporated society
by a majority vote enters into a contract or
compromises a suit, it is binding upon the
minority.<note place='foot'>Horton v. Baptist Church, 34 Vt., 309.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_60'/><hi rend='bold'>60.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Court, Trust.</hi>&mdash;Any member of an
unincorporated society may go into a court
of equity on behalf of himself and others to
enforce the execution of a trust in favor of
the society.<note place='foot'>Associated Reform Church v. Theological Seminary, 4
N. J. Eq., 77.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_61'/><hi rend='bold'>61.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Societies, Membership, Forfeiture.</hi>&mdash;Voluntary
religious societies when not restricted
by their charters or articles of association,
may make by-laws declaring what
shall constitute membership and what shall
<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>
operate as a forfeiture thereof, applicable
to existing as well as to future members.
Where money is voted to be raised by an
assessment to be made at a subsequent
period, a person who was a member of the
religious society at the time that such vote
was passed, but withdraws before the time
of assessment, is not liable to taxation.<note place='foot'>Taylor v. Edison, 4 Cushing, 522.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter VI. Incorporated Religious Societies</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_62'/><hi rend='bold'>62.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Special Law, General Laws.</hi>&mdash;In
most of the States there is a special law
under which congregations may be incorporated.
New York is a good example.<note place='foot'>Laws of 1895, ch. 723; Religious Corporations, Cummings
and Gilbert.</note>
Where such law does not exist, the congregation
may be incorporated under the general
laws. For business reasons each congregation
should be incorporated.<note place='foot'>Heiss v. Vosburg, 59 Wis., 532; 18 N. W., 463.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_63'/><hi rend='bold'>63.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Officers, Discipline, Property.</hi>&mdash;When
a church society incorporates it becomes
a private corporation, and the officers
are bound to manage the property in the
most upright and careful manner according
to the discipline of the church.<note place='foot'>Tartar v. Gibbs, 24 Md., 323.</note> When a
parish incorporates, the title to the parish
property vests in the corporation, to which
trustees may be compelled to convey it.<note place='foot'>Christian C. v. C., 219 Ill., 503; 76 N. E., 703.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_64'/><hi rend='bold'>64.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Incorporation, Evidence.</hi>&mdash;The certificate
of incorporation or charter of a religious
society or a certified copy thereof
<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>
from the public record, is the proper evidence
thereof.<note place='foot'>Jackson v. Legate, 9 Wendell, N. Y., 377.</note> Secondary evidence and
evidence <hi rend='italic'>aliunde</hi> may be competent in some
forums.<note place='foot'>10 Cyc, 235-244.</note> In most States if incorporation is
alleged in the complaint, it need not be
proved unless denied by an affidavit or a
verified answer.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_65'/><hi rend='bold'>65.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Congregation, Members.</hi>&mdash;The act
of incorporation applies only to the particular
congregation petitioning for it and does
not extend to other churches, even though
they are a subsequent growth within the
same territory.<note place='foot'>Atty-Gen. v. Dutch, 36 N. Y., 452.</note> Incorporation once established
is presumed to continue.<note place='foot'>Methodist v. Pickett, 23 Barber, 436.</note> When a
new religious society is formed and incorporated,
consisting of individuals from existing
parishes, the members of the new society
from the time of its incorporation cease
to be members of the respective parishes
to which they had belonged.<note place='foot'>Sutton v. Cole, 8 Mass., 96.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_66'/><hi rend='bold'>66.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Temporal Affairs, Management.</hi>&mdash;A
majority of a religious corporation at a regularly
called meeting may, by a vote taken,
bind the minority in all temporal affairs.<note place='foot'>Miller v. English, 21 N. J. L., 317.</note>
The character of membership in the religious
corporation may be very different from
<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>
that of membership in the church.<note place='foot'>Enos v. Church, 187 Mass., 40; 72 N. E., 253.</note> The
fact that a member has been declared out of
the church by an ecclesiastical tribunal, may
not affect his rights in the management of
the temporal concerns of the corporation.<note place='foot'>Baptist v. Wetherell, 3 Paige, N. Y., 296; In re Williams,
105 N. Y. S., 1105; Contra: First R. P. Ch. v. Bowden,
10 Abb., N. C., 1.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_67'/><hi rend='bold'>67.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Corporators, Change.</hi>&mdash;In isolated
cases here and there it has been held that a
majority of the corporators of a religious
society has the right to change the form of
church government, as from the Congregational
Church to an organization in connection
with the Presbyterian Church.<note place='foot'>Bellports v. Tooker, 29 Barber, N. Y., 256.</note> But
it is a general rule that a majority of the
congregation can act only consistently with
the particular and general laws of the
church organization, but not in violation of
them.<note place='foot'>Sutter v. First, 42 Pa. St., 503.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_68'/><hi rend='bold'>68.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Constitution, Subsequent Laws.</hi>&mdash;An
ecclesiastical society formed before the
adoption of the state constitution is not by
that constitution and subsequent laws concerning
religious societies divested of its
legal character.<note place='foot'>Atwater v. Woodbridge, 6 Conn., 223.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_69'/><hi rend='bold'>69.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Name, Change.</hi>&mdash;The name of an
ecclesiastical corporation is arbitrary and a
<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>
change or alteration in its name does not
affect its identity.<note place='foot'>Wardens v. Hall, 22 Conn., 125.</note> A charter will not be
granted to a church with a name so like another
church in the same State, that one may
be taken for the other.<note place='foot'>Beach, Private Corporations, vol. i, p. 608.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_70'/><hi rend='bold'>70.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church, Regular.</hi>&mdash;In church organizations
those who adhere to the regular
order of the church, legal and general,
though a minority, are the true congregation
and constitute the corporation if incorporated.<note place='foot'>Free Ch. of Scotland v. Overton, Appeal Cases, House
of Lords, 1904; Winnebrenner v. Colder, 43 Pa. St., 244.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_71'/><hi rend='bold'>71.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Notice, Legal.</hi>&mdash;All the proceedings
of a corporation, including notice, must be
in accordance with the constitution and by-laws,
and no business transacted contrary
thereto is legal.<note place='foot'>Rules of Order, Scanlan, c. iii.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_72'/><hi rend='bold'>72.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Control, Secede, Vested Rights.</hi>&mdash;The
officers of a church corporation have
control of the business management for all
civil purposes, excepting as otherwise provided
by the articles of organization, charter,
or by-laws of the corporation. However,
the by-laws must not contravene the
laws of the State.<note place='foot'>Christ's Ev. L. C., 5 Pa. Co. Court, 121.</note> A charter was refused
in Pennsylvania which provided that the
<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>
congregation might, by a majority vote, dissolve
or secede from the central body and
divide the property.<note place='foot'>In re Zion, 8 Kulp. Pa., 239.</note> A charter of incorporation
may be amended in harmony with
the principles, discipline, and objects of the
church, but not otherwise.<note place='foot'>In re Hebron, 9 Phil., 609.</note> The fact that
incorporation of a church confers certain
rights and privileges under the charter, such
charter being accepted, does not give the
church corporation any vested rights.<note place='foot'>U. S. v. Church, 5 Utah, 361, 394, and 538; 15 Pac.,
473; 16 Pac., 723; 18 Pac., 35.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_73'/><hi rend='bold'>73.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Consolidation, Control, Dissolution.</hi>&mdash;So
far as the State law is concerned, two
different denominations may form one corporation;<note place='foot'>Neil v. Vestry, 8 Gill., 116.</note>
or two or more congregations
of the same organization may form one corporation.<note place='foot'>Madison v. Baptist, 26 N. Y., 570; Stokes v. Phelps,
47 Hun., 570.</note>
Where such consolidation is attempted,
the new organization must have
control of all the property.<note place='foot'>German, etc., 9 Pa. Co. C., 12.</note> So long as different
congregations attempting to consolidate
retain their respective identities, they do
not form a single corporation.<note place='foot'>Evenson v. Ellingson, 72 Wis., 242; 39 N. W., 330.</note> It is a general
rule that a corporation may be dissolved
by taking the steps required by law. As
there are various statutory provisions in the
<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>
different States, each case had best be attended
to by an attorney. In some States
there is a provision that where a corporation
fails to carry out its functions for a stated
time, it thereby becomes dissolved. The
omission of a parish for one year to elect
officers, does not necessarily operate as a dissolution
under such statute. In case of dissolution
under a statute of that kind, the
property of the church is not forfeited to the
State.<note place='foot'>Toby v. Wareham, 54 Mass., 440.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_74'/><hi rend='bold'>74.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Debt, Limited.</hi>&mdash;The amount of debt
which the trustees of a religious society may
be authorized to create, may be limited by its
constitution.<note place='foot'>Weber v. Zimmerman, 22 Md., 156; Wyncoop v. Cong.,
10 La., 185.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_75'/><hi rend='bold'>75.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Conditions, Effect.</hi>&mdash;Where $1,000
was given defendants to erect and maintain
forever a Lutheran church and prohibiting
the grantee from alienating or disposing of
or otherwise changing or encumbering the
land by deed, a mortgage given to secure a
legitimate debt was held valid, as the legal
title was in the corporation and a court of
equity could not refuse to enforce the mortgage
for the payment of an honest debt
under color of protecting a charitable use.<note place='foot'>Magie v. German, 13 N. J. Eq., 77.</note>
But property given a congregation for the
<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>
maintenance of a church that becomes dissolved,
reverts to the heirs as a resulting
trust.<note place='foot'>Esterbrook v. Tillinghast, 71 Mass., 17.</note> A corporation that has been authorized
to purchase land may execute a mortgage
for the purchase money or a part of it
without further authority.<note place='foot'>South v. Clapp, 18 Barber, N. Y., 35.</note> Where by an
ancient agreement a meeting-house was to
remain in a particular place, a vote of the
congregation will not justify pulling it
down, and an action of trespass will lie for
razing it and damages will be given for the
value of the building.<note place='foot'>Tilden v. Metcalf, 2 Day, Conn., 259; Heiss v. Vosburg,
59 Wis., 532; 18 N. W., 518.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_76'/><hi rend='bold'>76.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Suits, Parties.</hi>&mdash;When a church is
incorporated, it should be sued in its corporate
name; but when the bishop of the
Catholic church holds the legal title to the
land in litigation, he should be made a
party.<note place='foot'>Keller v. Tracy, 11 Ia., 530.</note> And if there are two sets of officers
contending for control, service of the papers
upon the intruders may not be sufficient. The
safer practice is to serve upon both.<note place='foot'>Verrian v. Methodist, 44 Abbott Pr., 424.</note> A
suit by the trustees of a religious society to
restrain other parties claiming to be trustees
from interfering in the management and
control of the society property, is properly
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
brought in the corporate name of the trustees
and not in the name of the State.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Hoessli, 13 Wis., 348.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_77'/><hi rend='bold'>77.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Incorporation, Sufficient.</hi>&mdash;Where
the articles of incorporation were drawn and
signed in the form required by law, excepting
as to the acknowledgment, and were recorded,
and the corporation organized in
good faith, it became a <hi rend='italic'>de facto</hi> corporation
and was sufficient to entitle it to sue to prevent
certain members from perverting the
use of its property.<note place='foot'>Franke v. Mann, 106 Wis., 118; 81 N. W., 1014.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_78'/><hi rend='bold'>78.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Dissolution, Fund.</hi>&mdash;The corporation
of a congregation can not by seceding and
a majority vote dissolve the corporation
where it is a part of a superior body.<note place='foot'>Den. v. Pilling, 24 N. J. L., 653.</note> But
the courts have plenary powers over corporations
under the United States jurisdiction,
such as territories, and may dissolve a corporation.<note place='foot'>Mormon v. United States, 136 U. S., 1; 33 L. Ed., 639.</note>
The fact that the dissolution is
contrary to, or authorized by church discipline,
makes no difference as to granting the
dissolution, as such discipline can not supersede
the state law.<note place='foot'>In re Methodist, 67 Hun., 86.</note> On dissolution of a religious
corporation, the surplus fund derived
from a legacy should be disposed of in
the manner the court believes to be most in
<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>
harmony with the will of the contributors to
the fund, could they have foreseen the
event.<note place='foot'>In re Union, 6 Abb., N. C., 398.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_79'/><hi rend='bold'>79.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Reorganization.</hi>&mdash;A church corporation
may reorganize and be reinstated into
all rights that it formerly had.<note place='foot'>First v. Brownell, 5 Hun., 464.</note> The steps
to be taken to reorganize are usually provided
by statute and should be closely followed.
Upon the reorganization, the old
corporation becomes terminated.<note place='foot'>Evenson v. Ellingson, 72 Wis., 242; 39 N. W., 330.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_80'/><hi rend='bold'>80.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Meetings, Majority, Quorum.</hi>&mdash;In
corporate meetings, meetings of boards, and
meetings of committees duly called, a majority
vote of those present determines the
action of the body. If the membership is indefinite,
those who attend such meeting constitute
a quorum; but if the membership is
definite, it requires a majority of the voting
members to constitute a quorum, unless the
law of the State or the constitution (articles
of organization) or by-laws provide a different
number.<note place='foot'>Rules of Order, Scanlan, 20; Tartar v. Gibbs, 24 Md.,
328; Sutter v. First, 42 Pa. St., 503.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter VII. Superior Authority</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_81'/><hi rend='bold'>81.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Protestant, Ministers, Bishop.</hi>&mdash;In
most church organizations the authority is
divided into superior and inferior. In countries
where there is an established Protestant
church, the superior authority is first
in the king and queen and secondly in the
bishops. The inferior authority is in the
ministers and secular officers of the church.
Where there is no established church, the
synod or bishop is the superior authority.
Thus decisions of our courts usually apply
to all churches alike.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_82'/><hi rend='bold'>82.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Roman Catholic Church, Pope, Bishops,
Delegated.</hi>&mdash;In the Roman Catholic
Church the superior authority is first in the
Pope and secondly in the other bishops.
This superior authority is graded and some
of it may be delegated, as in case of a Papal
delegate. But the general rule that delegated
authority can not be again delegated
by the delegate without special authority
applies to church matters.
</p>

<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_83'/><hi rend='bold'>83.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bishop, Discipline, Clergy.</hi>&mdash;Within
his diocese the bishop is the executive officer,
the legislature, and the judiciary; but he is
subject to the superior authority of the
Church. The bishop may make laws for his
diocese, subject to the limitation of the general
doctrine and discipline of the Church.
He has original jurisdiction of all causes
arising in his diocese, and may decide them
in the first instance and inflict such penalties,
suspension, or excommunication, in accordance
with the canons of the Church, as
he deems fit. The clergy are subject to his
orders and discipline according to the canon
law. However, without special contract, the
bishop is not civilly liable for the salary of
a priest under him, either while he is actually
in the line of his assigned duties or while
waiting to be assigned.<note place='foot'>Rose v. Vertin, 46 Mich., 457; 9 N. W., 491; Tuigg v.
Sheehan, 101 Pa. St., 363.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_84'/><hi rend='bold'>84.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Local, Secular Matters.</hi>&mdash;There is
still another division of superior and inferior
authority: the local corporation or
congregation has nothing whatever to do
with the doctrinal or disciplinary functions
of the Church; but has only such powers
and authority with regard to secular matters
as is provided by the laws of the State
or conferred by the articles of organization,
<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>
charter, and by-laws. Also, unless there is
some other rule to the contrary, only the
male members who are over twenty-one
years of age, have a voice and vote in such
corporation.<note place='foot'>Am. &amp; Eng. Ency. of L., <q>Religious Societies.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_85'/><hi rend='bold'>85.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Unincorporated, Authority.</hi>&mdash;When
a church is not incorporated, all its elections
and proceedings, so far as they are not contrary
to the laws of the State, must be in
accordance with the rules and regulations
of the Church; and the rule that the inferior
authority must give way to the superior
authority in all matters within the limitations
of the constitution and laws of the
organization, prevails.<note place='foot'>Den. v. Bolton, 12 N. J. L., 206.</note> However, courts
are not always clear on the last part of this
rule.<note place='foot'>Bonacum v. Murphy, 65 Neb., 831, and 71 Neb., 463;
98 N. W., 1030; 102 N. W., 267, and 104 N. W., 180.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_86'/><hi rend='bold'>86.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Tribunal, Action, Appeal.</hi>&mdash;When
any question arises and is being adjudicated
in the tribunal of the church organization,
either as an original action or on appeal, the
State court will not interfere so long as the
proceedings are in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the church, unless some
vested right to property is in question or
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
some one's right as a citizen of the State or
of the United States is being infringed.<note place='foot'>Bonacum v. Murphy, 71 Neb., 463; 104 N. W., 180;
Bowden v. MacLeod, 1 Edw., N. Y., 588.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_87'/><hi rend='bold'>87.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Spiritual Authority, Excommunication.</hi>&mdash;Neither
the Pope nor the bishop has
any but spiritual authority within the State.<note place='foot'>Congregation v. Martin, 4 Rob., La., 62.</note>
The law of this country considers excommunication
as expelling from membership;
but does not tolerate interference with civil
or property rights of citizens. Therefore,
major excommunication <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>non tolerati</foreign>, is unlawful
in the United States.<note place='foot'>Fitzgerald v. Robinson, 112 Mass., 371; Grosvenor v.
United States, 118 Mass., 78; Post, 132.</note> However, a
bishop is not liable for any expression of
his opinion as to the extent of his episcopal
authority nor for any act of omission in the
exercise of his spiritual functions.<note place='foot'>Wardens v. Blanc, 8 Rob., La., 51.</note> The
civil courts will not go behind a church
authority to inquire as to excommunication,
but may examine as to the competency of
the tribunal according to the laws of the
denomination.<note place='foot'>Bowldin v. Alexander, 82 U. S., 131; 21 L. Ed., 69.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_88'/><hi rend='bold'>88.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Constitution, Limited, Decisions.</hi>&mdash;A
written constitution is not necessary to
prove the connection between a subordinate
and superior ecclesiastical body; but it will
be inferred from the circumstances of the
<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>
case.<note place='foot'>Den. v. Pilling, 24 N. J. L., 653.</note> The superior may dissolve or reorganize
an inferior body as a congregation.<note place='foot'>Appeal of McAuley, 77 Pa., 397.</note>
In fact the superior authority, in religious
matters, is plenary, excepting as limited by
the laws of the State and the constitution of
the Church.<note place='foot'>Smith v. Swormstedt, 57 U. S., 288; 14 L. Ed., 942.</note> The decisions of the ecclesiastical
tribunals in all cases on doctrine,
order, and discipline, are conclusive in the
state courts.<note place='foot'>Skilton v. Webster, Bright, Pa., 203; Mt. Helena Bp.
Ch., 79 Miss., 488; 30 So. Rep., 714.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter VIII. Inferior Authority</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_89'/><hi rend='bold'>89.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Priesthood</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Discipline</hi>.&mdash;The inferior
authority in the Church may be said to be
in the priesthood, whose rights and duties
are fixed by the canon law, but who are still
further subject to the reasonable diocesan
rules made by the bishop. The disciplinary
relation of a priest to his bishop is substantially
the same as that of a captain to his
colonel, and implicit obedience in accordance
with the discipline of the Church may be
strictly enforced by the bishop in so far as
it relates to ecclesiastical matters, including
doctrine and discipline, in which the priest
can not resort to the courts of the State, but
must submit to the tribunals of the church.<note place='foot'>Smith v. Swormstedt, 57 U. S., 288; 14 L. Ed., 942.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_90'/><hi rend='bold'>90.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Congregation, Insubordinate, Discipline.</hi>&mdash;The
male members of a congregation
are invested with no visitorial or controling
power, but only such authority as is
given under the laws of incorporation.<note place='foot'>Tartar v. Gibbs, 24 Md., 323; Papalion v. Manusos,
113 Ill. App., 316.</note>
<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>
Where an inferior organization, as a congregation,
refuses to receive a clergyman
appointed by the bishop, it is an act of insubordination
to the ecclesiastical authority
of the Church and in violation of its discipline,
which authorizes the issuing of a peremptory
mandamus commanding them to
admit the clergyman.<note place='foot'>People v. Steele, 2 Barber, 397.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_91'/><hi rend='bold'>91.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Pastor, Parish, Relation.</hi>&mdash;When a
clergyman's connection with a church had
been duly dissolved, he ceased to be pastor
of the church and an arrangement with the
parish to retain his relation as pastor of
such church was nugatory and void.<note place='foot'>Stebbins v. Jennings, 10 Pickering, 172.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_92'/><hi rend='bold'>92.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Clergymen, Citizens.</hi>&mdash;Clergymen residing
in an incorporated town are not exempt
from the performance of any duties
required of citizens, unless such exemption
is given by statute.<note place='foot'>Elizabeth City v. Kennedy, Bush, 44, N. C. Law, 89.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_93'/><hi rend='bold'>93.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Doctrine and Discipline, Authority.</hi>&mdash;In
all matters concerning doctrine and
discipline of the Church, the inferior authority,
such as ministers, priests, and deacons,
as well as the congregation, must
submit to the decision of the higher authority,
whether bishop, synod, or council.<note place='foot'>Diffendorf v. Reformed Church, 20 Johns., N. Y., 12.</note>
</p>

<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_94'/><hi rend='bold'>94.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sect, Suit, Property.</hi>&mdash;A number of
people formed a congregation and became
incorporated in 1810, the members being
mostly of Presbyterian extraction. This independent
congregation bought and paid for
property, the title vesting in the corporation.
In 1811 the congregation passed resolutions
unanimously that it <q>would be imprudent
and unscriptural</q> to establish a new
religious sect, and voted to join the First
Reformed Dutch Church, which had an
organization of inferior and superior authority.
The congregation was received
into and became a part of the general organization,
and remained so until 1860,
when a majority of the congregation voted
to employ a Methodist minister, and when
his name was submitted to the superior
authority, the <q>classis,</q> he was rejected as
not belonging to the church. Then by a
majority vote, the congregation seceded and
assumed its first name, and thereafter
brought suit for the church property. The
court held that by joining the First Reformed
Dutch Church, the title of the
property vested in the congregation of that
church as represented by its corporation,
and that when the majority seceded and left
the church, they had no right nor title to
any of the property. And the court laid
<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>
down the general rule that a majority of a
church congregation may direct and control
any church matters consistently with the
particular and general laws of the organization
or denomination to which it belongs,
but not in violation of them.<note place='foot'>Sutton v. Trustees, 42 Pa., 503.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_95'/><hi rend='bold'>95.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Priest, Salary.</hi>&mdash;The fact that a
bishop who holds the title to all the diocesan
property in his own name in trust appoints
a priest to the parish or as chaplain to a
hospital, does not give the priest a right of
action against the bishop personally for his
salary. The relation of bishop and priest is
not that of employer and employe, but is
that of ecclesiastical superior and inferior.<note place='foot'>Baxter v. McDonald, 155 N. Y., 83; 49 N. E., 667.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_96'/><hi rend='bold'>96.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Curate, Induction, Rector.</hi>&mdash;The <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>jus
patronatus</foreign> of the Spanish law has been abrogated
in Louisiana. The wardens of the
church can not compel a bishop to institute
a curate of their appointment, nor is he in
any sense subordinate in his clerical functions
to the wardens of any church within
his diocese.<note place='foot'>Wardens v. Blanc, 8 Rob., 51.</note> In the absence of a positive
rule of the ecclesiastical body, no ceremony
of induction is necessary for the rector of a
parish.<note place='foot'>Young v. Ransom, 31 Barb., 49.</note> A clergyman appointed <q>permanently</q>
to a rectorship holds it for an indefinite
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
period during the pleasure of the
contracting parties, and either of the contracting
parties may give the other notice of
termination, and with the concurrence of
the higher ecclesiastical authority of the diocese,
a change may be made.<note place='foot'>Perry v. Wheeler, 75 Ky., 541.</note> It is doubtful,
however, whether in most States a permanent
appointment would not be construed
as a contract for life, determinable only for
good cause.<note place='foot'>Sheldon v. Easton, 4 Mass., 281; Congregation v.
Peres, 42 Tenn., 620; Thompson v. Catholic, 22 Mass., 469.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_97'/><hi rend='bold'>97.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Controversy, Tribunal, Decision.</hi>&mdash;When
the clergyman and his parishioners
submit a controversy to an ecclesiastical
tribunal, the decision, if not impeached for
good cause, is justification in the party conforming
to it.<note place='foot'>Proprietors v. Proprietors, 48 Mass., 496.</note> And a minister who submits
to a church tribunal and is ousted after
fair hearing and trial, can not obtain a writ
of mandamus from the civil court to compel
his reinstatement.<note place='foot'>Dempsey v. North, 98 Mich., 444; 57 N. W., 267.</note> Also, after a minister
has been dismissed in due manner by the
tribunal of his denomination, the civil court
will enjoin him from usurping his office.<note place='foot'>Hackett v. Mt. Pleasant, 46 Ark., 291.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_98'/><hi rend='bold'>98.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Priest, Dwelling, Servant.</hi>&mdash;A Catholic
priest in charge of a congregation at
the will of the bishop and occupying a dwelling-house
<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>
belonging to the church, is a servant
and not a tenant, and his right to occupancy
ceases with his services.<note place='foot'>Chatard v. O'Donovan, 80 Ind., 20.</note> The law
is different with regard to a Methodist minister
who is in charge of his parish by an
annual conference and can not be ejected
by the congregation or bishop until the
next conference, as he has possession of
the church property without superior authority.<note place='foot'>Brestor v. Burr, 120 N. Y., 427; 8 L. R. A., 710; 24 N.
E., 937.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_99'/><hi rend='bold'>99.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Injunction, Bishop, Priest, Trial.</hi>&mdash;On
application for an injunction to restrain
the bishop from passing a sentence against
a priest, the only ground on which a court
can exercise jurisdiction is that the threatened
action of the bishop will affect the civil
rights of the priest.<note place='foot'>Walker v. Wainwright, 16 Barb., 486.</note> A bishop can not remove
a priest without an accusation, hearing,
or trial, and forbid him to exercise any
priestly function where such removal would
cut off the priest's income and destroy his
means of living in his vocation.<note place='foot'>O'Hara v. Stack, 90 Pa., 477.</note> However,
in the same case it was held that a complaint
stating that the bishop failed and neglected
to assign the plaintiff to the exercise of his
office of priest in said diocese to the plaintiff's
<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>
damage, etc., failed to show that any
right of property or civil right was involved
and the priest was non-suited, while in the
former case an injunction was issued
against the bishop.<note place='foot'>Stack v. O'Hara, 98 Pa. St., 213.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_100'/><hi rend='bold'>100.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Confession, Privacy, Authority.</hi>&mdash;A
Catholic priest, although about to administer
an office of his religion to a sick person
at the latter's request, has no legal authority,
by virtue of his priestly character, to forcibly
remove from the room a person lawfully
there.<note place='foot'>Cooper v. McKenna, 104 Mass., 284.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_101'/><hi rend='bold'>101.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Debts, Permission, Presumed.</hi>&mdash;Notwithstanding
a rule or ecclesiastical law
of the church that a pastor shall not contract
debts in the name or for the sake of the
church without the written permission of
the bishop, such written permission is not
evidence that debts contracted under it are
the legal debts of the bishop. The authority
which bishops delegate to priests is under
the ecclesiastical law and prima facie ecclesiastical
authority, and must be presumed to
be so in the absence of all evidence to the
contrary.<note place='foot'>Leahy v. Williams, 141 Mass., 345.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_102'/><hi rend='bold'>102.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Official Acts, Subscriptions.</hi>&mdash;The
official acts of a minister coming in question
incidentally, unless contrary to the statute,
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
are as valid as the official acts of any other
officer.<note place='foot'>State v. Winkle, 14 N. H., 480.</note> A clergyman who was engaged to
conduct dedication services and was requested
by the officers of the local corporation
to solicit subscriptions for paying off
the indebtedness of the church, but was not
appointed agent to receive such subscriptions,
had no authority to accept a subscription
for the corporation.<note place='foot'>Methodist v. Sherman, 36 Wis., 404.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_103'/><hi rend='bold'>103.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Exemptions, Clergy.</hi>&mdash;The exemptions
given ministers by the statutes of some
States are liberally construed.<note place='foot'>Baldwin v. McKlinch, 1 Me., 102.</note> Without
any statutory exemption, the clergy are
liable for all duties required of other citizens.<note place='foot'>Elizabeth City v. Kennedy, 44 N. C., 89.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_104'/><hi rend='bold'>104.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Minister, Contributions, Deposed.</hi>&mdash;No
religious teacher or minister can be enjoined
from receiving voluntary contributions,
although he has been deposed by some
ecclesiastical tribunal.<note place='foot'>Calkins v. Cheney, 92 Ill., 463.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_105'/><hi rend='bold'>105.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Fees, Usages, Excess.</hi>&mdash;The fees of
a priest of the Catholic Church are regulated
by the laws and usages of that Church,
and where in this country the pew rent and
collections go for the support of the priest
and the current church expenses, a priest is
<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>
not accountable for the excess of such collections
over these expenditures.<note place='foot'>St. Patrick's v. Daly, 116 Ill., 76; 4 N. E., 241.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_106'/><hi rend='bold'>106.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Salary, Fees.</hi>&mdash;Under the act of
March, 1814, incorporating a congregation,
the congregation, being the legal owners and
temporal administrators of the property
which it was authorized to hold, had the
exclusive power to fix the salary of the
parish priest or the tariff of fees for marriages,
burial, etc. No such power could be
exercised under that act by the Pope or any
bishop.<note place='foot'>Congregation v. Martin, 4 Rob., La., 62.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_107'/><hi rend='bold'>107.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Clergyman, Salary.</hi>&mdash;Where a clergyman
agreed with a congregation that the
salary should be what could be raised by
subscription, the congregation was bound
to use due diligence in procuring subscriptions,
and as it did so, that was all that the
clergyman could recover.<note place='foot'>Meyer v. Baptist, 38 Vt., 614.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_108'/><hi rend='bold'>108.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Curate, Services.</hi>&mdash;In an action by
a curate against a religious corporation for
personal services, the court will not inquire
into the spiritual relations existing between
the parties, but will examine their legal
rights only.<note place='foot'>Congregation v. Martin, 4 Rob., 62.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_109'/><hi rend='bold'>109.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Minister, Dismissal, Money Advanced.</hi>&mdash;After
a parish has voted to dismiss
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
the minister, it is not competent to prove
irregular conduct or immorality in answer
to his claim for salary, without alleging it
in the vote of dismissal.<note place='foot'>Whittmore v. Fourth, 68 Mass., 306.</note> In Illinois it was
held that a priest who advanced money from
his private resources for improving church
property, had an equitable lien upon the
property for all the money advanced, with
legal interest.<note place='foot'>St. Patrick's v. Daly, 4 N. E., 241; 116 Ill., 76.</note> But in Pennsylvania, where
a priest under the direction of the bishop
built a church in his parish for mission purposes,
and in doing so expended some of his
own money, it was held that in the absence
of proof of any rule or custom of the Catholic
Church making the payment of such expenses
obligatory on the parish, that he
could not recover the money so expended
from his congregation.<note place='foot'>Tuigg v. Treacy, 104 Pa., 493.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter IX. Membership</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_110'/><hi rend='bold'>110.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Business, Religious Membership.</hi>&mdash;Unless
there is some other law or rule to the
contrary, the male members of the congregation
over twenty-one years of age constitute
the business membership of a religious
society.<note place='foot'>Tartar v. Gibbs, 24 Md., 323.</note> But the question of membership
of religious societies or congregations is left
to be determined by the rules of the religious
denomination to which they belong.<note place='foot'>Heiss v. Murphy, 40 Wis., 276, 278; Den. v. Pilling, 24
N. J. L., 653.</note> And
where a condition of membership is that the
person must contribute to the support of the
church and be a communicant, if he is not
a communicant he is not entitled to vote.<note place='foot'>Weckerly v. Geyer, 11 Ser. R. Pa., 35.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_111'/><hi rend='bold'>111.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Regular, Doctrines, Support.</hi>&mdash;The
ones who adhere and submit to the regular
order and doctrines of the church, although
a minority, constitute the true congregation.<note place='foot'>Weinbrenner v. Colder, 43 Pa. St., 244.</note>
At least two things must concur to
qualify a person as a voter: first, stated attendance
<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>
at divine worship in the congregation;
and, second, contribution to the
support of the church.<note place='foot'>People v. Tuthil, 31 N. Y., 550.</note> The list of members
kept by the clerk or secretary of the
congregation is evidence of membership.<note place='foot'>Price v. Lyon, 14 Conn., 280.</note>
A person who denies any part of the system
of theology received and taught by the denomination
is not a member of the church.<note place='foot'>Suter v. Spangler, 4 Phil., 331.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_112'/><hi rend='bold'>112.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Factions, Authority.</hi>&mdash;Where two
factions of a church, each claiming to be the
church, try members of the other faction,
a court may determine which of the factions
is the authorized authority or that the
action taken by either or both of them is
nugatory for want of authority.<note place='foot'>Smith v. Pedigo, 145 Ind., 36; 32 L. R. A., 836; 33 N.
E., 777.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_113'/><hi rend='bold'>113.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Faith, Burial.</hi>&mdash;Whether a person
died in the faith of the Roman Catholic
Church so as to be entitled to burial in its
cemetery, is not a question within the jurisdiction
of civil courts, but must be decided
by the ecclesiastical authorities.<note place='foot'>McGuire v. Trustees, 54 Hun., 207.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_114'/><hi rend='bold'>114.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Rules, Membership.</hi>&mdash;Every denomination
has the right to prescribe by
rules, its constitution, or its by-laws, the
conditions of membership; and any one who
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
will not subscribe to and practise the doctrines
of the denomination is not a member.<note place='foot'>Church v. Halverson, 42 Minn., 503; 44 N. W., 563;
Day v. Bolton, 12 N. J. L., 206; Den. v. Pilling, 24 N. J.
L., 653.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_115'/><hi rend='bold'>115.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Minor.</hi>&mdash;Where the legal members
of a society that is incorporated consist of
male members of the church of full age,
when minor sons become of age, they become
legal members of the corporation, provided
they remain in the church.<note place='foot'>Osgood v. Bradley, 7 Me., 411.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_116'/><hi rend='bold'>116.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Officers, Non-Members.</hi>&mdash;It has
been held that a person may be an officer
or member of the church corporation or its
temporal concerns without being a member
of the denomination.<note place='foot'>Baptist v. Witherell, 24 Am. Dec., 223; 3 The Catholic
Cyclopedia, 755; Contra: First R. P. Ch. v. Bowden, 10
Abb., N. C, 1. See post <ref target='Para_134'>134</ref>, <ref target='Para_156'>156</ref>.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_117'/><hi rend='bold'>117.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Debts, Unincorporated Parish.</hi>&mdash;In
Connecticut members of an ecclesiastical
society formed by voluntary association
under the statutes of the State are not individually
liable for the debts of such society.<note place='foot'>Jewett v. Thames, 16 Conn., 511.</note>
But where there is no statute on
the subject, the members of an unincorporated
parish are liable for lawful debts
contracted or ratified by them, and their
property may be levied on for such debts
<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>
incurred or judgments rendered while they
are members of the society.<note place='foot'>Chick v. Trevett, 20 Me., 462; Allen v. M. E. Church,
127 Ia., 96; 102 N. W., 808; 69 L. R. A., 255.</note> The members
of an unincorporated parish may be sued to
recover the salary of a deceased pastor up
to the time of his death.<note place='foot'>Sheehy v. Blake, 72 Wis., 411; 39 N. W., 479; 9 L. R.
A., 564.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_118'/><hi rend='bold'>118.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Execution, Property.</hi>&mdash;While an
execution against a territorial parish may
be levied on the property of a member of
the parish, it can not be levied on property
of a person who ceased to be a member before
the levy.<note place='foot'>Chase v. Merrimac, 34 Mass., 564; Bigelow v. Congregation,
15 Vt., 370.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_119'/><hi rend='bold'>119.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Incorporated, Subscriptions.</hi>&mdash;The
members of an incorporated poll parish are
not individually liable on a judgment and
execution against the corporation, excepting
on the unpaid subscriptions.<note place='foot'>Richardson v. Butterfield, 60 Mass., 191.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_120'/><hi rend='bold'>120.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Expelled, Merits.</hi>&mdash;Mandamus can
not be resorted to to restore a member regularly
expelled from his church, as a court
will not inquire into the merits of the case.<note place='foot'>State v. Hebrew, 31 La. Ann., 205; 33 Am. Rep., 217;
Grosvenor v. United States, 118 Mass., 78; Watson v. Garbin,
54 Mo., 358.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_121'/><hi rend='bold'>121.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Lay Members, Appointed.</hi>&mdash;Where
the statute provides that two lay members
of the corporation of a Catholic parish shall
<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>
be appointed annually <q>by the committee of
the congregation,</q> the members of the congregation
have no right to elect said two
members, and those appointed in the proper
manner are lawful officers.<note place='foot'>State v. Getty, 69 Conn., 286; 37 At., 188.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter X. Heresy And Secession</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_122'/><hi rend='bold'>122.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Mother Church, Control.</hi>&mdash;A majority
of the members of a congregation
can not by their vote leave the church and
transfer the property of the congregation
to another church so long as any portion of
the congregation remains faithful to the
mother church of which such congregation
forms a part. Such minority shall retain
control of the property.<note place='foot'>Free Church of Scotland v. Overton, Appeal Cases,
House of Lords, 1904; Fuchs v. Meisel, 102 Mich., 357;
32 L. R. A., 92; 60 N. W., 773.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_123'/><hi rend='bold'>123.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Seceders, Funds.</hi>&mdash;Nor can seceders
from a religious denomination retain the
funds in their hands as trustees on the
ground that they were members of the
society when the funds accrued.<note place='foot'>Methodist v. Wood, 5 Ohio, 12.</note> The title
to church property in a divided congregation
is in that part of the congregation
which is acting in harmony with its own
law; and the ecclesiastical laws and principles
which were accepted among them before
the dispute began are the standards for
determining which party is right.<note place='foot'>McGinnis v. Watson, 41 Pa. St., 9.</note>
</p>

<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_124'/><hi rend='bold'>124.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Society, Foreign Language, Independent.</hi>&mdash;The
formation of a society distinct
from the rest of the congregation for
the purpose of instruction in a portion of the
doctrine of the same church in a foreign language
is not a separation from the congregation,
although it has its own minister and
officers.<note place='foot'>German v. Seibert, 3 Pa. St., 282.</note> Where an independent congregation
of one denomination votes unanimously
to go over to another denomination, and the
title to the church property is in the parish
corporation, the seceders take with them the
church property.<note place='foot'>Sutter v. First, 42 Pa. St., 503.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_125'/><hi rend='bold'>125.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Subordinate, Incorporated.</hi>&mdash;A religious
society subordinate to church judicatures,
which declares itself independent and
becomes incorporated under the general law
of the state and subsequently purchases
land and takes title in the name of the corporation,
holds such land independently of
such church judicatures.<note place='foot'>Miller v. Gable, 2 Den., N. Y., 492; Eis v. Croze, 149
Mich., 62; 112 N. W., 943; Dressen v. Brameier, 56 Ia.,
756; 9 N. W., 193; Amish v. Gelhaus, 71 Ia., 170; 32 N.
W., 318.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_126'/><hi rend='bold'>126.</hi> <hi rend='italic'><q>Church,</q> Seceders, Debt.</hi>&mdash;Where
a religious society amended its constitution
as provided therein, those who adhered to
the amended constitution constituted the
<q>church,</q> and those who refused to do so
<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>
were seceders.<note place='foot'>Lamm v. Cain, 129 Ind., 486; 14 L. R. A., 518.</note> After seceding, a member
of a parish is liable for a debt existing at the
time of his secession.<note place='foot'>Fernald v. Lewis, 6 Me., 264.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_127'/><hi rend='bold'>127.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bible, Constitution, Withdrawal.</hi>&mdash;A
religious organization that takes the
Bible as its constitution can not declare a
member a seceder who interprets it contrary
to the Augsburg Confession of the denomination.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Henschell, 48 Minn., 494; 51 N. W., 477.</note>
What amounts to a voluntary
withdrawal of members from a religious association,
is a question of law.<note place='foot'>Perry v. Tupper, 74 N. C., 722.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_128'/><hi rend='bold'>128.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Majority, Obligation.</hi>&mdash;The fact
that a majority of the members of a religious
corporation secede therefrom by a vote,
does not affect its obligation entered into
prior thereto.<note place='foot'>Wanner v. Emanuel, 174 Pa., 466.</note> Two factions of a church
separating and keeping up different organizations
may both still retain their membership
in the denomination.<note place='foot'>West v. Ottesen, 80 Wis., 62; 49 N. W., 24.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_129'/><hi rend='bold'>129.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Division, Funds.</hi>&mdash;Where there is
a division in a denomination by the secession
of a part of the members from the mother
church, the Legislature has no authority to
divide the funds and give a part to the seceding
division.<note place='foot'>Second v. First, 23 Conn., 255.</note>
</p>

<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_130'/><hi rend='bold'>130.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Methodist, Slaveholding, Non-Slaveholding,
Quarrel, Schism, Secession.</hi>&mdash;The
division of the Methodist church into
distinct organizations of slaveholding and
non-slaveholding States, was not a secession
and neither division lost its interest in the
common property.<note place='foot'>Smith v. Swormstedt, 57 U. S., 288; 14 L. Ed., 942.</note> A quarrel in a congregation
growing out of an illegal election
followed by the majority excluding the
minority from the church, is not a schism,
and is no ground for a division of the church
property.<note place='foot'>Nelson v. Benson, 69 Ill., 27; Brown v. Porter, 10
Mass., 93.</note> The secession of a whole congregation
does not carry with it the church
property; and those who are left and adhere
to the mother church retain control of the
property.<note place='foot'>Page v. Crosby, 41 Mass., 211.</note> When the seceders from one
church join another, they forfeit all claim to
any interest held by the former and lose
identity with it.<note place='foot'>Harper v. Straws, 53 Ky., 48; Hale v. Everett, 53 N.
H., 9; Wiswell v. First, 14 Ohio St., 31; Reorganized v.
Church, 60 Fed., 937; 32 L. R. A., 838; Fernstler v. Seibert,
114 Pa., 196; 6 At., 165.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XI. Excommunication</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_131'/><hi rend='bold'>131.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Definitions, Minor.</hi>&mdash;Excommunication,
as construed in law, is the official announcement
by the superior authority of the
termination of membership in a religious
body and the forfeiture of spiritual privileges
of the church. It is one of the methods
of discipline in the nature of expulsion from
membership in a fraternity, and the fact of
expulsion from a church is conclusive proof
that the person expelled is not a member of
such church. Whether the excommunication
was wrong or not can not be examined
into in the courts of the State, and such expelled
member can not maintain a suit in
relation to church property nor vote for
trustees.<note place='foot'>Shannon v. First, 42 Ky., 253.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_132'/><hi rend='bold'>132.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Major Excommunication.</hi>&mdash;As excommunication
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>non tolerati</foreign> affects the rights
of citizenship, it is not lawful in England
nor the United States. To say that A. has
been excommunicated in any form, if untrue,
is slander.<note place='foot'>Servatius v. Pichel, 34 Wis., 292; McGrath v. Finn, 16
Alb. L. J., 186; Morasse v. Borchee, 151 Mass., 567; 25
N. E., 74.</note>
</p>

<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_133'/><hi rend='bold'>133.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Vote, Sentence.</hi>&mdash;When a vote of
excommunication from a church has been
passed in the Congregational church and the
offender thereby declared no longer a member,
the sentence may be promulgated by
being read in the presence of the congregation
by the pastor.<note place='foot'>Farnsworth v. Storrs, 59 Mass., 412.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_134'/>
<hi rend='bold'>134.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trustees, Disqualified.</hi>&mdash;The trustees
of a church who have been excommunicated
are not thereby disqualified in law to
act as trustees.<note place='foot'>Bowldin v. Alexander, 15 Wall., 131; 21 L. Ed., 69;
Ante, sec. 116, post 156.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_135'/><hi rend='bold'>135.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Devise, Void.</hi>&mdash;A parent may leave
money to a child payable in yearly instalments
on condition that said child shall continue
to be a member of a particular church
and attend the regular meetings thereof, and
in case he fail so to do that the bequest be
thereupon paid to a missionary society.
Such a devise is not contrary to the constitution
of the State of Wisconsin and is not
void for any other reason.<note place='foot'>In re Paulson's will, 127 Wis., 612; 107 N. W., 484.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_136'/><hi rend='bold'>136.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Fraternity, Excommunicated, Bequest.</hi>&mdash;Where
a church member was also a
member of an insurance fraternity connected
with his church, the constitution of
which required that every member of the
fraternity should be and remain a practical
<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>
Roman Catholic, when he was excommunicated
from membership in the church he
thereby forfeited his benefit certificate in
such fraternity.<note place='foot'>Barry v. C. K. of W., 119 Wis., 362; 96 N. W., 797.</note> Also, a condition that a
bequest shall be forfeited if the legatee
should not marry a Protestant wife, the
daughter of Protestant parents who have
always been Protestants, was held to be
valid and not an infringement of any constitutional
right.<note place='foot'>In re Knox, 25 Ch. Div., 542.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_137'/><hi rend='bold'>137.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Action, Expulsion.</hi>&mdash;An action can
not be maintained against the parish corporation
for expulsion from the church.<note place='foot'>Harden v. Baptist, 51 Mich., 137; 16 N. W., 311.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_138'/><hi rend='bold'>138.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Forfeiture of Membership</hi>.&mdash;Any
member may forfeit his membership in a
church.<note place='foot'>Taylor v. Edison, 58 Mass., 522; Gray v. Christian, 137
Mass., 329.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_139'/><hi rend='bold'>139.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Insubordination, Expulsion, Hearing.</hi>&mdash;The
authorities in the church, under
its rules and discipline, have a right to exclude
members in the church, for insubordination.<note place='foot'>Fulbright v. Higgenbotham, 133 Mo., 668; 34 S. W., 875.</note>
If the church has no rules as to
expulsion of members, the common law prevails,
and a member can not be expelled
without due notice and fair hearing.<note place='foot'>Jones v. State, 28 Neb., 495; 44 N. W., 658; 7 L. R.
A., 325.</note>
</p>

<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_140'/><hi rend='bold'>140.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Injunction, Mandamus, Sepulture.</hi>&mdash;An
injunction will not be granted to prevent
the expulsion of a member contrary to
the charter and by-laws of the denomination;
but if a member be expelled without
warrant of law, he has his remedy by mandamus
for reinstatement.<note place='foot'>Hamel v. German, 1 Weekly Note Cases, 411.</note> A person who
has been expelled can not maintain an action
for restoration in order to enjoy the right
of sepulture, as it is premature.<note place='foot'>State v. Hebrew, 31 La. Ann., 205; 33 Am. Rep., 217.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_141'/><hi rend='bold'>141.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Expulsion, Illegal.</hi>&mdash;The attempt of
a minority of a church to expel the majority
of the members and turn over the property
to another denomination is illegal. However,
the same would be true if it were done
by the majority.<note place='foot'>Deadrick v. Lampson, 58 Tenn., 523.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_142'/><hi rend='bold'>142.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Freedom, Faith, Doctrine.</hi>&mdash;The
constitution in declaring the freedom of all
men to worship God according to the dictates
of their own consciences, does not give
a church member the right to repudiate the
faith and doctrine on which the church was
founded, and at the same time to insist on
his right to exercise and enjoy the benefits
and privileges of a member of such church.<note place='foot'>Smith v. Pedigo, 145 Ind., 361; 32 L. R. A., 838.</note>
Every person joining a church, impliedly, if
not expressly, agrees to conform to its rules
<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>
and to submit to its authority and discipline.<note place='foot'>Lucas v. Case, 9 Bush, Ky., 297.</note>
A person who has been expelled
from a religious society can not maintain an
action for services rendered the society
while he was a member.<note place='foot'>Grosvenor v. U. S., 118 Mass., 78.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XII. Elections</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_143'/><hi rend='bold'>143.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Time, Place, Void.</hi>&mdash;Where a religious
society that is incorporated holds an
election for trustees, which is held at the
wrong time or place, the election is void.<note place='foot'>Miller v. English, 21 N. J. L., 317; 10 Cyc, 320-328;
Rules of Order, Scanlan, 17.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_144'/><hi rend='bold'>144.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Voting, Communicants, Attendance.</hi>&mdash;A
by-law of a church that prohibited
any person whose pew rent was in arrears
more than two years from voting at a church
meeting, is valid and reasonable.<note place='foot'>State v. Crowell, 9 N. J. L., 391; Commonwealth v.
Cain, 5 Ser. &amp; R., Pa., 510.</note> Where a
charter of a religious society allowed only
members being communicants to vote after
they had attained the age of eighteen years,
to entitle a member of the congregation to
vote it was necessary that he should have
taken the sacraments after the age of
eighteen years.<note place='foot'>Wegerle v. Geyer, 11 Ser. &amp; R., Pa., 35.</note> Where the right to vote
was limited to members who contributed not
less than ten shillings annually toward the
support of the church, those who were challenged
for want of complying with the rule
<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>
can not do so after being challenged and
then vote.<note place='foot'>Juker v. Commonwealth, 20 Pa. St., 484; St. Luke's v.
Matthews, 4 Desau, S. C., 578; State v. Crowell, 9 N. J.
L., 391.</note> Stated attendance at divine
worship in the church, congregation, or society,
and contribution to the support of such
church, may be made the tests of the right
of a person to be a voter at an election. The
attendance of a wife or children of the family
is not sufficient to confer the right to
vote on the husband or father.<note place='foot'>People v. Tuthill, 31 N. Y., 550.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_145'/><hi rend='bold'>145.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Voters, Poll List.</hi>&mdash;Parol evidence
is admissible to prove the number of persons
entitled to vote in a church society, notwithstanding
that there is a register of
names of the stated hearers in such church
kept by the clerk of the trustees.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_146'/><hi rend='bold'>146.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Notice, Quorum, Majority, Strangers.</hi>&mdash;It
is not necessary that a majority of
the members of a religious society be present
to constitute a corporate meeting. Those
present at a regularly called meeting of
which due notice has been given to all the
members, constitute a quorum; and, in the
absence of a rule to the contrary, a majority
of the votes cast carries any question.<note place='foot'>Rules of Order, Scanlan, 18, 20; 10 Cyc, 329.</note> The
presence of strangers, unless they vote, will
not vitiate the proceedings. If they should
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
vote, unless their votes determine the election,
it will not be void.<note place='foot'>Madison v. Baptist, 32 Howard's Pr., 335.</note> The casting of a
few illegal votes that would not change the
result of the election does not make it void.<note place='foot'>People v. Tuthill, 31 N. Y., 550.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_147'/><hi rend='bold'>147.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Challenge, Ground.</hi>&mdash;The right of
a person to vote at any meeting may be challenged.
The proper time to challenge a
voter is when he offers his vote. After his
vote has been received it can not be thrown
out on the ground that he was disqualified.<note place='foot'>Hart v. Harvey, 32 Barb., N. Y., 55.</note>
A church election for which due notice has
been given, that has been fairly conducted,
and all the requirements of the statute or
rules of the church complied with, is conclusive.<note place='foot'>Alexander v. Bowers, 79 S. W., 342.</note>
Without due notice, all proceedings
are void.<note place='foot'>Rules of Order, Scanlan, 18, 20, 23; People v. Peck, 11
Wend., N. Y., 604.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_148'/><hi rend='bold'>148.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>By-Laws, Usage.</hi>&mdash;If there is no
law of a religious society determining the
mode of conducting an election, the corporation
may provide by-laws therefor; and
if the corporation should fail to make such
by-laws, a long established usage will govern.<note place='foot'>Rules of Order, Scanlan, 9; Gipson v. Morris, 83 S.
W., Tex., 226; McCrary's Am. L. of Elections, secs. 298-300.</note>
Also, if the time an election is to be
held is provided for, but the manner of conducting
<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>
it is not, the meeting may be conducted
according to established usage.<note place='foot'>Juker v. Commonwealth, 20 Pa., 484.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_149'/><hi rend='bold'>149.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Ballot, Hand Vote.</hi>&mdash;The vote of a
religious society at an annual meeting for
the election of officers that the officers shall
always be chosen by ballot, does not vitiate
an election of officers by hand vote at a subsequent
annual meeting. But a provision in
the constitution or by-laws requiring a ballot
must be complied with.<note place='foot'>Rules of Order, Scanlan, 23-27; Wardens v. Pope, 8
Gray, Mass., 140.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_150'/><hi rend='bold'>150.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Hold Over, Successors.</hi>&mdash;When the
election of the new trustees is invalid, the old
trustees hold over until there will have been
a valid election of their successors.<note place='foot'>Den. v. Pilling, 24 N. J. L., 653.</note> But
where a board that was illegally elected employed
a minister who had no notice of such
illegality, he was entitled to his compensation
according to the contract.<note place='foot'>Vestry v. Matthews, 4 Desau, S. C., 578.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_151'/><hi rend='bold'>151.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Majority, Votes Cast.</hi>&mdash;Where the
majority of a congregation protested against
the proposed candidate, but failed to vote for
any one, such candidate who received the
greatest number of votes cast, was lawfully
elected.<note place='foot'>Cooley's Con. Lim., 619; McCrary's Am. L. of Elections,
sec. 197; Rules of Order, Scanlan, 24-27.</note>
</p>

<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_152'/><hi rend='bold'>152.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>By-Law, Tickets.</hi>&mdash;When a by-law
provides that <q>if besides the names there are
other things upon the tickets, such tickets
are not to be counted,</q> a ballot having an
engraved eagle on it should be rejected.<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. Woelper, 3 Ser. &amp; R., Pa., 29.</note>
However, in a very recent case under a
statute that specifically provided what should
be printed on the general election ballot, and
in addition thereto the Union Labor label
was printed thereon, the court held that
the statute should be strictly construed in
favor of the voter and that the ticket should
be counted.<note place='foot'>In re Peters, 112 N. Y. Sup., 339.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XIII. Officers</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_153'/><hi rend='bold'>153.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charter, By-Laws.</hi>&mdash;The articles of
organization or the charter which is the
constitution of the corporation may provide
who may be officers of a religious society and
limit their authority. The constitution usually
gives further authority to make by-laws
which are binding on the officers as well as
on the members.<note place='foot'>Gram v. Prussia, 36 N. Y., 161.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_154'/><hi rend='bold'>154.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Unincorporated Church, Incorporated.</hi>&mdash;The
officers of an unincorporated
church can only be elected by the members
of the church, unless there is some law of
the State or rule of the church that provides
for appointing them. In an incorporated
congregation, the charter and by-laws of the
corporation determine whether the officers
shall be elected or appointed.<note place='foot'>Wall v. Johnson, 140 Ind., 445; 39 N. E., 251; Simmons
v. Allison, 118 N. C., 763.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_155'/><hi rend='bold'>155.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trustees, Control.</hi>&mdash;A statute
passed in 1813 providing that a certificate
of incorporation by the bishop, vicar-general,
pastor of the church, and two others
<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>
selected by them and their successors shall
be a body corporate, does not constitute the
trustees the corporation in place of the congregation
so as to make the acts of a majority
of the trustees binding on the corporation
in the absence of proof of other authority.<note place='foot'>People v. St. Anthony, 109 N. Y., 512; 17 N. E., 408.</note>
Under the statutes of Louisiana
providing for the incorporation of congregations
for the purpose of administration
and revenues, it was held that the corporation
had full control and was responsible to
the congregation alone and could not be controled
by the clergy. The congregation had
the right to elect others in the places of those
amoved by reason of their misuse or abuse
of their powers.<note place='foot'>Congregation v. Martin, 4 Rob., 62; Wardens v. Blanc,
8 Rob., 51; St. Andrew's Ch. v. Schaugnessy, 63 Neb., 792;
89 N. W., 261.</note> And in Massachusetts,
under the law for incorporating Catholic
parishes, no one but the trustees have any
power.<note place='foot'>Enos v. Church, 187 Mass., 40; 72 N. E., 253.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_156'/><hi rend='bold'>156.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Membership, Office.</hi>&mdash;Where church
membership is necessary to hold office in the
church corporation, it is a binding condition
precedent.<note place='foot'>Ross v. Crockett, 14 La. Ann., 811.</note> An officer who withdraws or
is expelled from a religious organization
thereby terminates his office.<note place='foot'>Laight v. Noe, 12 Howard's Pr., 497; Contra: In re
Williams, 105 N. Y. S., 1105; Ante, 116, 134.</note>
</p>

<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_157'/><hi rend='bold'>157.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Certificate of Election.</hi>&mdash;A certificate
of election of officers is prima facie
evidence thereof, but the truth may be shown
<foreign rend='italic'>aliunde</foreign> and a wrong certificate may be cancelled
by a judgment of a competent court
on a writ of <foreign rend='italic'>quo warranto</foreign> or proceeding
under a statute of the State. Also, if the
certificate does not conform to the law, it is
insufficient.<note place='foot'>People v. Lacoste, 37 N. Y., 192; Fadness v. Braunberg,
73 Wis., 257; 41 N. W., 84; McCrary on Am. L. of
Elections, secs. 209, 264; 10 Cyc, 347; People v. Nappa, 89
Mich., 232; 50 N. W., 846.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_158'/><hi rend='bold'>158.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Term, Successors, Contest.</hi>&mdash;Where
there is no term of office fixed, the presumption
is that an officer continues as such until
proof to the contrary is established,<note place='foot'>Hendrickson v. Shotwell, 1 N. J. Eq., 577.</note> or until
his successor shall have been elected and
shall have qualified.<note place='foot'>Congregation v. Sperry, 10 Conn., 200; 10 Cyc, 319.</note> Also, the officers
elected for a certain term can not be amoved
by electing new officers before the end of
the term.<note place='foot'>Den. v. Pilling, 24 N. J. L., 653.</note> When officers or committees
have been elected <q>for the ensuing year,</q>
they shall hold office until superseded by
their duly elected successors. Where two
sets of officers were elected at a meeting of
a religious corporation and the set that was
elected according to the charter continued
in office by appointment thereafter, it was
<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>
too late for the irregularly elected officers to
make a contest for the offices after the term
for which they had been elected had expired.<note place='foot'>Smith v. Erb, 5 Gill., Md., 437.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_159'/><hi rend='bold'>159.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>By-Laws, Preside.</hi>&mdash;At an election
of trustees under by-laws that provide that
certain officers shall preside, if there are no
such officers members may be selected to
preside in their places.<note place='foot'>People v. Peck, 11 Wend., N. Y., 604.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_160'/><hi rend='bold'>160.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Note, Overdraft, Interest.</hi>&mdash;The
president and secretary of a church corporation
have no authority to make a promissory
note unless authorized by the board of trustees.<note place='foot'>Catron v. First, 46 Ia., 106; People v. St. Anthony's,
109 N. Y., 512; 17 N. E., 408.</note>
Neither has the treasurer authority
to make an overdraft on a bank with the
action of the trustees.<note place='foot'>Columbia v. Gospel, 127 N. Y., 361.</note> The trustees of a
parish, however, may make a note binding
the congregation for the payment of the
money used in building a church.<note place='foot'>First v. Caughey, 85 Pa., 271.</note> But
when the trustees have an interest in the
transaction, adverse to the congregation,
they are disqualified from acting.<note place='foot'>San Antonia v. Adams, 87 Tex., 125; 26 S. W., 1040;
Hill v. Rich, 119 Mo., 9; 24 S. W., 223.</note> When
trustees had claims against the congregation
which they included with other claims that
<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>
third parties had against the church, they
could not put them in a judgment note so as
to get a lien upon the church property.
When officers do not bind the congregation,
they usually bind themselves.<note place='foot'>Hewitt v. Wheeler, 22 Conn., 577; Devos v. Gray, 22
Ohio, 159; Klopp v. Moore, 6 Kan., 27; Neil v. Spencer,
5 Ill. App., 461; United v. Vandusen, 37 Wis., 54.</note> The trustees
of an unincorporated church can not
bind it beyond the expressed powers granted
by the members.<note place='foot'>Miller v. Church, 4 Phil., 48.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_161'/><hi rend='bold'>161.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Board, Control.</hi>&mdash;When the laws of
the organization give control of matters to
the board of trustees, the majority of the
members of the church can not control the
action of the trustees contrary to the usages
and regulations of the church.<note place='foot'>Brunnenmeyer v. Buhre, 32 Ill., 183.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_162'/><hi rend='bold'>162.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Treasurer, Accepting a Draft.</hi>&mdash;A
parish treasurer has no authority under any
condition to bind the corporation by accepting
a draft in favor of a third person. A
treasurer elected for the purpose of receiving
and investing funds in his individual
name, holds such funds as trustee for the
church and is subject as such trustee to a
court of equity. Persons claiming to be
trustees of a church but never getting possession
of their offices or the property of the
church, can not maintain an action against
<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>
other persons who are in possession and
have been duly elected.<note place='foot'>N. Baptist v. Parker, 36 Barb., N. Y., 171.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_163'/><hi rend='bold'>163.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Note, Trustees.</hi>&mdash;A church will not
be bound by a note which was executed by
two of its trustees and sent around to other
trustees to sign it, where there was no vote
of the board of trustees at an authorized
meeting to borrow or to execute such note.<note place='foot'>Dennison v. Austin, 15 Wis., 334.</note>
A meeting of a board must be called as required
by law or the by-laws of the organization,
and in the absence of any such all
members must be notified a reasonable time
before the time fixed for holding the meeting.
However, if all the trustees are present
and agree to hold a meeting it is valid;
but it would be well to put such consent in
writing and have all the members sign it.<note place='foot'>United v. Vandusen, 37 Wis., 54; MacLaury v. Hart,
121 N. Y., 636; 24 N. E., 1013.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_164'/><hi rend='bold'>164.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Money, Powers.</hi>&mdash;The treasurer of
a congregation has no right to return to
members moving out of the parish a part of
the money paid for the church by them.<note place='foot'>Vestry v. Barksdale, 1 Strobb. Eq., S. C., 197.</note>
Officers of a corporation have no powers
only those conferred upon them by the charter
and by-laws of the corporation or by a
majority vote of a duly called meeting of
the congregation.<note place='foot'>New v. Gress, 89 Ga., 125.</note> When the trustees of a
<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>
church are authorized to execute contracts
for the church, they should act as a body or
delegate the power to one of their number or
ratify the acts of one of their number.<note place='foot'>10 Cyc, 776-9; In re Denny, 156 Ind., 104; 59 N. E.,
359; 51 L. R. A., 722.</note> The
individual disjointed action of trustees of a
religious society, at various times and places,
although assented to by a majority, is not
the action of the board, and is not binding
on the society. To make the action of
the board of trustees binding, they must
duly meet and by a vote determine their
action.<note place='foot'>Rules of Order, Scanlan, 21; U. S. v. Balm, 144 U. S.,
1; 12 Sup. Ct. R., 507; 36 L. Ed., 321; The Catholic Cyclopedia,
vol. i, 289.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_165'/><hi rend='bold'>165.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>De Facto Officers.</hi>&mdash;The acts of <hi rend='italic'>de
facto</hi> officers can not usually be questioned
in a collateral proceeding, such as to set
aside a conveyance, when the merits of the
question do not involve the election.<note place='foot'>Cicotte v. Anciaux, 53 Mich., 227; 18 N. W., 793.</note> Being
elected does not alone make a person a <hi rend='italic'>de
facto</hi> officer; but he must also be acting in
the particular office to which he claims to
have been elected.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Halverson, 42 Minn., 503; 44 N. W., 663.</note> But one who has
entered into a contract with the officers of a
congregation is estopped from denying their
authority to make such contract.<note place='foot'>Skinner v. Richardson, 76 Wis., 464; 45 N. W., 318;
Dennison v. Auston, 15 Wis., 334.</note>
</p>

<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_166'/><hi rend='bold'>166.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trustees, Thanks, Charge.</hi>&mdash;Where
trustees have taken care of funds without
charge, the only entry kept being a vote of
thanks from time to time, they could not
afterward charge a commission on the
moneys handled by them for such services.<note place='foot'>Vestry v. Barksdale, 1 Strobb. S. C. Eq., 197.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_167'/><hi rend='bold'>167.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Discretion, Excommunication.</hi>&mdash;A
court has no authority to control the exercise
of the judgment or discretion of the
officers of a church in the management of its
funds so long as they do not violate its constitution
or by-laws.<note place='foot'>State v. Ahnapee, 99 Wis., 322; 74 N. W., 783.</note> Excommunication
does not always remove an officer of a church
corporation.<note place='foot'>Bowldin v. Alexander, 82 U. S., 131; 21 L. Ed., 69;
The Catholic Cyclopedia, vol. iii, 755, 756.</note> The legal rights of a bishop
in regard to the temporalities of a church
where they are not prescribed by civil law,
must rest, if at all, upon the ecclesiastical
law, which must be determined by evidence.<note place='foot'>Leahy v. Williams, 141 Mass., 345; 6 N. E., 78.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_168'/><hi rend='bold'>168.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Key, Possession, Right.</hi>&mdash;Having
the key of a church, is prima facie evidence
of possession, but the right of possession is
a matter of proof.<note place='foot'>People v. Runkel, 8 Johnson, N. Y., 464.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_169'/><hi rend='bold'>169.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church, Bishop, Debts, Salary of a
Priest.</hi>&mdash;Where a church is not itself liable
because it is not incorporated, the Roman
Catholic bishop of the diocese is not personally
<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>
liable for moneys borrowed by the pastors
of such church in the name of the
church, which were partly invested in real
estate which was put in the bishop's name
in the usual manner, although the bishop's
permission was necessary before borrowing
the money, and notwithstanding that the
bishop raised some of the money to pay some
of the debts and the mortgage on the real
estate of the church on his personal security,
and he received part of the borrowed funds
from a dying pastor and handed it over to
his successor.<note place='foot'>Leahy v. Williams, 141 Mass., 345.</note> Also, a bishop is not personally
liable for the salary of a priest whom
he engages. They are fellow servants
working for the Church and not in the relation
of employer and employee any more
than are a general and captain in the same
army.<note place='foot'>Rose v. Vertin, 46 Mich., 457; 9 N. W., 491; Tuigg v.
Sheehan, 101 Pa., 363.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_170'/><hi rend='bold'>170.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Note, Building Committee.</hi>&mdash;In an
action on a note given by the pastor of a
church for money borrowed to pay bills for
the erection of the church building, in which
the plaintiff sought to charge the building
committee, and it appeared from the plaintiff's
testimony that the title to the property
was in the bishop and the committee did not
handle any of the funds, but was a shifting
<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>
body to whom the pastor only went for
advice and consultation, it was held that the
plaintiff could not recover.<note place='foot'>Freeport v. Egan, 146 Pa., 106; 23 At., 390.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_171'/><hi rend='bold'>171.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Fraud, Trust.</hi>&mdash;Where a <q>prophet</q>
induced members of his organization, by his
fraud and deceit, to convey to him all their
property in discharge of a religious duty and
then refused to account to them, the court
declared the trust closed and divided the
estate among the members in proportion to
the money, property, and labor contributed
by each of them.<note place='foot'>Scott v. Thompson, 21 Ia., 599.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_172'/><hi rend='bold'>172.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Superioress, Money.</hi>&mdash;A person
who contributed money for the purpose of
repairing a convent, the money being turned
over to the superioress and the convent not
being incorporated, upon the project being
abandoned subsequently a personal judgment
could not be obtained against the
superioress for the money contributed.<note place='foot'>Emonds v. Termehr, 60 Ia., 92; 14 N. W., 197.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_173'/><hi rend='bold'>173.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Loan, Priest.</hi>&mdash;If a man lends
money to a priest for the purpose of paying
a note against the congregation left at the
bank for collection, he can recover the
money so paid from the congregation.<note place='foot'>Wojcienchowski v. Johnknowski, 16 Pa. Sup. Ct., 444.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_174'/><hi rend='bold'>174.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Warden, Wages, Sexton.</hi>&mdash;A
church warden who was hired by the trustees
<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>
of a church can not collect his wages
by an action against the priest of the parish.<note place='foot'>Chiniqui v. Delaire, 37 Ill., 237.</note>
A church accepting the services of a
sexton is liable to him therefor, whether
the by-laws were observed in employing him
or not; nor will the fact that any party (as
in this case the Ladies of the Altar Society)
agreed to contribute to his annual salary,
defeat his recovery of the whole from the
church employing him.<note place='foot'>St. Patrick's v. Abst., 76 Ill., 252.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_175'/><hi rend='bold'>175.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sewing Circle, Money.</hi>&mdash;A church
may maintain an action against a sewing
circle to require it to pay over money collected
for the benefit of the church.<note place='foot'>First v. Prior, 23 Hun., 271.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XIV. Meetings</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_176'/><hi rend='bold'>176.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Business, Notice, Meeting.</hi>&mdash;Where,
in the transaction of the local business of a
religious society, whether incorporated or
not, meetings of the members shall become
necessary, in order to make such meetings
legal due notice thereof should be given to
every member. The notice should specify
the exact time and place where the meeting
will be held, and no change can be made
except at such time and place. Unless some
other place is specified, the parish church is
the proper place for holding meetings. If
the church should be locked and the key can
not be found, a meeting should be held at
the door or at the nearest practical place to
the church where all the members may assemble,
and then by a majority vote they
may adjourn to any convenient near place
accessible to all the members.<note place='foot'>Den. v. Pilling, 24 N. J. L., 653; Rules of Order, Scanlan,
15-18.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_177'/><hi rend='bold'>177.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Acts, Void, Lawful, Clerk.</hi>&mdash;The
acts of a majority of the members of a corporation,
unless done according to law and
<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>
in conformity with the charter and by-laws
of the corporation, are absolutely null and
void.<note place='foot'>German v. Pressler, 17 La. Ann., 127.</note> The only lawful manner by which a
congregation can express itself, is by a
meeting regularly called and held upon due
notice.<note place='foot'>Appeal of McAuley, 77 Pa., 397.</note> The notice of a meeting should be
authorized by the trustees or other authority
of the church, and given to all the members.
The clerk of the board of trustees, unless
authorized to do so, has no authority to sign
the name of the members of the board to a
notice, and a meeting called in that way is
illegal.<note place='foot'>Bethany v. Sperry, 10 Conn., 200.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_178'/><hi rend='bold'>178.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Special Meeting, Notice.</hi>&mdash;When a
meeting is special, the notice must state for
what purpose the meeting is called. If it
fails to do so it is void, and unless all the
members are present and consent to the
holding of the meeting, all business transacted
is illegal and void.<note place='foot'>Weber v. Zimmermann, 22 Md., 156.</note> Notice of a special
meeting that states one specific purpose for
which it is called, and then states <q>to transact
any other business that may legally come
before the meeting,</q> is not good for any
purpose except the one specified.<note place='foot'>Downs v. Bowdoin, 149 Mass., 135; 21 N. E., 294.</note>
</p>

<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_179'/><hi rend='bold'>179.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Meeting, Consent.</hi>&mdash;A valid meeting
can not be held by a corporation, unless
notice has been given in conformity with the
laws and rules and regulations of the corporation
or the consent of every person who is
entitled to be present at the holding of such
meeting. In the latter case the consent
should be in writing and signed by all the
members.<note place='foot'>Smith v. Erb., 4 Gill., Md., 437.</note> However, a person who attends
a meeting and takes part in it without objection,
is estopped from raising the question
of notice.<note place='foot'>Helbig v. Rosenberg, 86 Ia., 159; 53 N. W., 111.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_180'/><hi rend='bold'>180.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Notice, Principal Service, Custom.</hi>&mdash;When
a rule of a church required notice
of a meeting to be given at the principal
service, a notice given at an earlier service
only, was void.<note place='foot'>Dahl v. Palache, 68 Cal., 248.</note> But where the ordinances
of a church specified that the election of officers
should be at least six days before the
end of their term, and it became the custom
of the church to hold the election on a movable
holiday which sometimes was less than
six days, the election was held valid.<note place='foot'>People v. Runkel, 9 Johnson, 147.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_181'/><hi rend='bold'>181.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Adjournment.</hi>&mdash;Where a meeting
was noticed for one day and held on a different
day without notice of adjournment,
all acts done were void and the officers
<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>
elected were neither <hi rend='italic'>de jure</hi> nor <hi rend='italic'>de facto</hi>
officers.<note place='foot'>First v. Hillary, 51 Cal., 155.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_182'/><hi rend='bold'>182.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Proof of the Notice.</hi>&mdash;The proper
proof of the notice would be the return of
the officer serving the notice, in some States;
and in others an affidavit of the person who
served the notice. The proof of the services
of a summons would be sufficient unless there
is some other law or rule to the contrary.<note place='foot'>Tuttle v. Cary, 7 Me., 426.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_183'/><hi rend='bold'>183.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Presiding Officer.</hi>&mdash;When the laws
of the organization provide who shall preside
at a meeting, but the minister contrary
to such laws and against objections presided
over the majority of the congregation, and
the minority was presided over by the proper
person, and both elected officers, the officers
elected by the minority were the lawful
ones.<note place='foot'>State v. Steward, 6 Houst., Del., 9.</note> However, where a meeting is presided
over without objection by a member
instead of the proper officer, the acts of the
body are lawful.<note place='foot'>Jones v. Cary, 6 Me., 448; Rules of Order, Scanlan,
29-30.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_184'/><hi rend='bold'>184.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Voters, Rules.</hi>&mdash;Unless the laws of
the State otherwise provide, every religious
organization has the right to determine who
shall vote at its meetings and elections. If
those provisions are reasonable, they are
<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>
lawful. Under such provisions it has been
repeatedly held that where there are rules
requiring annual subscriptions to the
church,<note place='foot'>State v. Steward, 6 Houst., Del., 359.</note> only those who rented and paid for
pews, or those who paid a certain annual
tax, or those who went to communion, were
entitled to vote.<note place='foot'>Juker v. Commonwealth, 20 Pa., 484; McIlvain v.
Christ's Church, 8 Phil., 507.</note> And where there was no
rule, it was held that one who has not contributed
to the church<note place='foot'>Livingston v. Trinity Church, 45 N. J. L., 230.</note> and persons who
attended church only occasionally and contributed
only when they attended, were not
qualified voters.<note place='foot'>People v. Tuthill, 31 N. Y., 550.</note> In the last case it was
stated that a qualified voter is one who has
attended regularly during the year and has
contributed to the support of the church.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_185'/><hi rend='bold'>185.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Quorum, Majority.</hi>&mdash;A quorum of
a congregation usually consists of those
present at a duly called regular meeting, and
a majority of those present is sufficient to
carry questions, unless by rule or law otherwise
provided.<note place='foot'>Madison v. Baptist, 46 N. Y., 131.</note> But where there is a definite
body in a corporation which has established
no other rule, a majority of the members
of the corporation constitute a
quorum.<note place='foot'>Moore v. St. Thomas' Church, 4 Abb., N. Y., 51.</note> Where the minutes of the clerk
<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>
stated that upon due notice the members of
the corporation met, a quorum is presumed.<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. Woelper, 3 Ser. &amp; R., 29.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_186'/><hi rend='bold'>186.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Votes, Challenge, Inspectors, Casting
Vote.</hi>&mdash;The reception of illegal votes
does not invalidate an election unless they
change the result.<note place='foot'>Wardens v. Pope, 74 Mass., 140.</note> If the presiding officer
refuses to allow a qualified voter to vote, the
right may be enforced through civil courts.<note place='foot'>Oakes v. Hill, 6 Weekly Notes, Cas., 346.</note>
When votes have been received without
challenge, it is then too late to raise the objection
that the persons have no right to
vote.<note place='foot'>Hartt v. Harvey, 32 Barb., 55.</note> It is the duty of the inspectors to
determine the qualifications of an elector at
the time that he offers to vote, and before he
votes; and if they decide in the exercise of
their judgment, without malice or improper
motives, the regularity of the election can
not be questioned.<note place='foot'>Weckerly v. Geyer, 11 Ser. &amp; R., 35.</note> When a rule allows the
presiding officer to vote and another rule
states that he shall have the casting vote in
case of a tie vote, he still had the right to
cast the decisive vote.<note place='foot'>People v. Church, 48 Barb., 603.</note> Illegal voting in a
religious society probably is not an indictable
offense, but it is a disorderly act.<note place='foot'>Allen v. Gray, 11 Conn., 95.</note>
</p>

<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_187'/><hi rend='bold'>187.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Written Notice, Prayer Meeting.</hi>&mdash;Where
a five days' written notice is required
to hold church meetings, an oral notice given
on Sunday evening at the prayer meeting is
not sufficient for a meeting on the following
Wednesday. But a vote taken on Sunday to
hire the minister and fix his salary, is not
void.<note place='foot'>Arthur v. Norfield, 49 At., 241; 73 Conn., 718.</note> Churches and benefit societies, such
as insurance fraternities, being charitable
organizations, may do business concerning
such association on Sunday.<note place='foot'>Pepin v. Societies, 23 R. I., 81; 60 L. R. A., 626.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_188'/><hi rend='bold'>188.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Expulsion, Damages.</hi>&mdash;A man who
has been wrongfully expelled from a temperance
society for religious reasons may
recover damages therefor.<note place='foot'>Lahiff v. St. Joseph's T. A. B. S., 76 Conn., 648; 65 L.
R. A., 92.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XV. Church Records</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_189'/><hi rend='bold'>189.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Evidence, Entries, Minutes.</hi>&mdash;The
record of the proceedings of a religious society
is evidence as to its doings, both in its
own tribunals and the courts of the State.
Such record consists of entries required to
be made by the laws or rules of the society,
the laws of the State, and the minutes
adopted by the society. Therefore, it is of
the greatest importance that it be kept with
great exactness, omitting nothing that is
important.<note place='foot'>10 Cyc, 1067.</note> Also, the minutes of all the
meetings should be correct before being duly
adopted. All erasures and interlineations
should be certified by the clerk and then
signed by him.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_190'/><hi rend='bold'>190.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Uniformity.</hi>&mdash;Every entry required
to be kept by the laws of the State as well
as the rules of the Church, should be kept as
to births, marriages, and death. Every diocese
should have uniform record books in all
parishes and every pastor should keep blanks
printed in the form of a page of the record
book, to issue certificates when required.
</p>

<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_191'/><hi rend='bold'>191.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Marriage, Death, Baptism, Birth,
Church Records.</hi>&mdash;The church records duly
kept in accordance with the discipline of the
church, are admissible in evidence to prove
marriage, death, and baptism. Where the
record is incomplete, as giving the date of
baptism only, it is not admissible in proof of
date of birth. But if it gives the date of
birth, it is <hi rend='italic'>prima facie</hi> proof thereof.<note place='foot'>17 Cyc, 405; 2 Jones on Ev., secs. 522, 523; Conflict of
L., Wharton, vol. ii, sec. 761, pp. 1496-8; Collins v. German,
Am. M. I. Ass., 112 Mo. App., 209; 86 S. W., 891;
Layton v. Kraft, 98 N. Y., 996.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_192'/><hi rend='bold'>192.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Certified Copies.</hi>&mdash;Under statutes,
certified copies of the record made by the
custodian thereof are admissible in evidence
in any case where the original would be admissible.
Also, one who had compared a
copy with the original record may testify to
the same. The rule, as given, substantially
prevails under statutes in the following
States: Alabama, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana,
Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland,
Minnesota, Missouri, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania,
Rhode Island, and Wisconsin; and
also, in Ontario, Manitoba, and the Dominion
of Canada.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_193'/><hi rend='bold'>193.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Rule of Admissibility.</hi>&mdash;A certified
copy of the record of a baptism taken from
a church register by the parish priest, when
admissible at the place where such record is
<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>
kept, as in Ireland, is admissible to prove the
same fact in the State of Missouri.<note place='foot'>Collins v. German, 112 Mo. App., 209; Sandberg v. The
State, 113 Wis., 578; 89 N. W., 504.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_194'/><hi rend='bold'>194.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Proper Record.</hi>&mdash;A book kept by a
minister, which contained a regular statement
in proper form of the admission of
members, choice of officers, and transaction
of business of the church, which was the
only book kept by the parish, is the proper
record of the church.<note place='foot'>Sawyer v. Baldwin, 11 Pickering, 492.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_195'/><hi rend='bold'>195.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Name, Record.</hi>&mdash;The author would
like to emphasize the importance of correct
records. Frequently we find no Christian
name given in the records of birth, which
practically makes the record worthless.
When a child is born it is entitled to a name,
immediately, which should be given and be
correct. At least the first Christian name
should be correct; a mistake in a middle
name is not material. This is true of deeds
and records of all kinds, but practically of
births, deaths, and marriages.<note place='foot'>Finher v. Hanegen, 59 Ark., 151; 24 L. R. A., 543.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XVI. Church Tribunals</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_196'/><hi rend='bold'>196.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Jurisdiction, Privileges.</hi>&mdash;It is usual
for every fraternity to have a tribunal of its
own for the trial of members who break its
laws or violate its discipline. Within their
jurisdiction, the laws of the State give such
tribunals great privileges and courts show
them great respect. The Freemasons, the
Knights of Columbus, etc., and most of the
churches, have such courts.<note place='foot'>Mt. Zion v. Whitmore, 83 Ia., 138; 49 N. W., 846; 13
L. R. A., 198.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_197'/><hi rend='bold'>197.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trial, Property, Priest.</hi>&mdash;In most of
the States a court will not interfere with the
fair trial of a church tribunal. Neither will
the court entertain a controversy concerning
the title or right of possession of real or personal
property excepting at the instance of
some person claiming a right thereto derived
from or recognized by the law of the State
or of the United States.<note place='foot'>Bonacum v. Murphy, 65 Neb., 831; 98 N. W., 1030; 71
Neb., 463; 102 N. W., 267; 104 ib., 180; Nance v. Busby,
91 Tenn., 303; 18 S. W., 874; 15 L. R. A., 801.</note> But when the
bishop has deprived a subordinate priest of
his authority to officiate as such, he may
<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>
enjoin the priest from making use of the
church property.<note place='foot'>Bonacum v. Harrington, 65 Neb., 831; 91 N. W., 886.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_198'/><hi rend='bold'>198.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Doubt, Legal Rights.</hi>&mdash;The foregoing
rule has some doubt cast on it in Delaware
and Massachusetts. The investigation
of a dispute between members of a church
by a committee according to church regulations,
consented to by the parties, in which
both take part, can have no effect on their
legal rights. If the State law provides for
cases of the kind, it is superior and must be
submitted to. Also, an award or proceeding
of a committee is not evidence for or against
either party. However, any statement made,
or admissions of the parties, if not of a recognized
confidential nature, may be given in
evidence on the trial in a court of the State.<note place='foot'>Tubbs v. Lynch, 4 Harr., Del., 521.</note>
The judgment of a mutual ecclesiastical
council legally convoked will not bind either
party rejecting it.<note place='foot'>Sterns v. Bedford, 21 Pickering, 114.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_199'/><hi rend='bold'>199.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bishop, Priest, Redress.</hi>&mdash;When a
bishop removes a priest in the regular way
according to the rules and discipline of his
church, the priest has no redress.<note place='foot'>O'Donovan v. Chatard, 97 Ind., 421.</note> Also,
when a priest has submitted his case to the
church tribunal according to the discipline
of his church, he must abide by its decision,
<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>
excepting where his civil rights or property
rights as a citizen are involved, when he may
appeal to the laws of the land.<note place='foot'>Baxter v. McDonald, 155 N. Y., 83; 49 N. E., 667.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_200'/><hi rend='bold'>200.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trial, Counsel.</hi>&mdash;The question
whether a minister on trial in a church tribunal
is entitled to be heard by counsel or
attorneys depends upon the laws of the
church, and it can not be said as a matter of
law that he is entitled to counsel.<note place='foot'>Gibbs v. Gilead, 38 Conn., 153.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_201'/><hi rend='bold'>201.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Removal, Suspension, Trial.</hi>&mdash;In
the United States under the laws and discipline
of the Catholic Church a priest may
be removed from the charge of a congregation
at the pleasure of the bishop, without
trial; but he can not be suspended from his
priestly functions without specific accusation
and trial.<note place='foot'>Stack v. O'Hara, 98 Pa., 213.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_202'/><hi rend='bold'>202.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charges, Fair Trial, Hearsay Evidence.</hi>&mdash;When
a clergyman or officer is to be
removed or a member of the congregation is
to be excommunicated, it is necessary to
fully state the charges against him and give
him an opportunity for a fair trial according
to the laws and rules of the religious society
before rendering final judgment. All the
allegations of the complaint should be made
upon positive knowledge of the complainant
<pb n='117'/><anchor id='Pg117'/>
or upon evidence that is admissible to prove
the case in court. Rumor or gossip, known
as mere hearsay evidence, is not sufficient to
base a charge against the character of any
one.<note place='foot'>29 Cyc, 204, and <q>Religious Societies</q>; Am. &amp; Eng. Cyc.
of L., <q>Religious Societies</q> and <q>Beneficial Societies</q>; 2
Benefit Societies &amp; L. Insurance, Bacon, secs. 400a and
450a.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_203'/><hi rend='bold'>203.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trial, Testimony, Slander.</hi>&mdash;A
church judgment, where there has been a
full and fair trial or when members submit
to the church tribunal, and the judgment has
only been rebuke, censure, suspension, or excommunication,
is usually upheld by the
courts; and when the testimony given on
such trial is concerning immoral or scandalous
conduct or crime, if those taking part
act in good faith and within the scope of the
authority of the church, they are protected
by law and not liable to an action for damages
for libel or slander.<note place='foot'>Farnsworth v. Storrs, 59 Mass., 412.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_204'/><hi rend='bold'>204.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Remedies, Secular Courts.</hi>&mdash;In
cases involving church doctrine and discipline
only, all remedies within the church
must be exhausted by a member before the
secular courts will interfere, if they will interfere
at all.<note place='foot'>Hatfield v. Delong, 24 Ind. App., 343; 51 L. R. A., 751;
Ryan v. Cudahy, 157 Ill., 108; 41 N. E., 760; 49 L. R. A.,
353.</note>
</p>

<pb n='118'/><anchor id='Pg118'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_205'/><hi rend='bold'>205.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Notice, Waiver.</hi>&mdash;When the laws
of the church provide the tribunal and procedure,
if the person proceeded against
avoids the service of the notice or refuses to
submit to the court, the notice of trial required
to be served might thereby be considered
waived and the tribunal might proceed
with the trial in the absence of the accused.<note place='foot'>Sampsell v. Esher, 26 Weekly Law Bulletin, Ohio, 156.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_206'/><hi rend='bold'>206.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Appeal, Decision, Limitation.</hi>&mdash;The
right to appeal from one court to another of
higher jurisdiction is generally recognized.<note place='foot'>Day v. Robinson, 12 N. J. L., 206.</note>
If after trial in the lower tribunal of the
Church, an appeal is taken, the decision on
the appeal is binding upon the parties and
also upon the inferior tribunal.<note place='foot'>Diffendorf v. Reformed Church, 20 Johnson, N. Y., 12.</note> In the
Anglican and some other churches, there is
no limitation as to time when offenses
against the discipline of the church may be
inquired into.<note place='foot'>Chase v. Cheney, 58 Ill., 509.</note>
</p>

<p>
The Catholic Church has a limitation as
to prescriptive rights, to-wit: <q>Three years
in case of movable property; ten years in
case of a right, or of immovable property,
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>inter praesentes</foreign>; twenty years in the same
case, <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>inter absentes</foreign>.</q><note place='foot'>Catholic Dictionary, Addis &amp; Arnold, <q>Prescription.</q></note> Also, there are limitations
in canonical cases, varying from one
<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>
to twenty years.<note place='foot'>Legal Formulary, Baart, 462.</note> There is no statute of
limitation on lawful debts.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_207'/><hi rend='bold'>207.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Procedure, Judge, Juror, Witness.</hi>&mdash;If
there are no rules of procedure prescribed
by the church tribunal, the proper
practice is to follow the State courts; as, for
example, where the State law forbids an
officer of the court who has an interest in
the proceeding to sit as judge or juror, the
same would apply to the church tribunal, it
being the common law of the land. Also, in
States where a person who is interested in a
matter is not a competent witness, in the
absence of a different rule in the church, the
same rule would apply in the church
tribunal.<note place='foot'>Juker v. Commonwealth, 20 Pa. St., 484.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_208'/><hi rend='bold'>208.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Catholic Discipline.</hi>&mdash;A church
member has no right to sue any one in holy
orders in the civil court without leave. That
is, a layman or priest should obtain leave of
the bishop to sue a priest. In some countries
it is ground for excommunication to violate
the rule. This rule is analogous to the general
rule that a sovereign state can not be
sued without its consent.<note place='foot'>Beers v. Arkansas, 20 How., U. S., 527; 15 L. Ed., 991.</note> In this country,
where there is no ecclesiastical court recognized
in law, leave is rarely asked.<note place='foot'>See <q>Benefit of the Clergy</q> and <q>Forum Ecclesiasticum,</q>
in The Catholic Cyclopedia and in the Catholic Dictionary.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XVII. State Courts</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_209'/><hi rend='bold'>209.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Decision, Ecclesiastical Matter.</hi>&mdash;The
decision of the highest tribunal of the
church on a purely ecclesiastical matter will
not be disturbed by civil courts unless it is in
open defiance and express violation of the
constitution of such body.<note place='foot'>Kuns v. Robinson, 154 Ill., 394; 40 N. E., 343; Brundage
v. Deardorf, 55 Fed., 839; Watson v. Jones, 80 U. S., 679;
20 L. Ed., 666; Bird v. St. Mark's, 62 Ia., 567; 17 N. W.,
747; Perry v. Wheeler, 75 Ky., 541; Powers v. Bundy, 45
Neb., 208; 63 N. W., 476; Connit v. Reformed, 54 N. Y.,
551; Harrison v. Hoyle, 24 Ohio St., 254; Krecker v.
Shirey, 163 Pa., 534; 30 At., 540.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_210'/><hi rend='bold'>210.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Right of Property, Civil Rights.</hi>&mdash;Where
there are several church tribunals
one above another, when the highest tribunal
having jurisdiction of the case has decided a
question as to the right of property, a civil
court will accept such decision of the church
tribunal as conclusive.<note place='foot'>Watson v. Jones, 80 U. S., 679; 20 L. Ed., 666.</note> The courts give
way to the usages and regulations of the
church so far as they are not inconsistent
with the constitution and laws of the State.<note place='foot'>Prickett v. Wells, 117 Mo., 502; 24 S. W., 52; Pounder
v. Ash, 36 Neb., 564; 54 N. W., 847.</note>
As far as civil rights are concerned, the
<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>
statute of limitations may be pleaded even
where those rights are founded upon some
law or rule of the denomination.<note place='foot'>Atty-Gen. v. Fed., 69 Mass., 1.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_211'/><hi rend='bold'>211.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Creed, Factions, Property, Management.</hi>&mdash;The
supreme court exercises no
ecclesiastical jurisdiction, but accepts what
the highest ecclesiastical authority in each
church promulgates as the faith and practice
of that church, and will not determine
for itself what that faith or creed is in order
to establish the rights of respective factions
in the church to the church property. But a
majority of a congregation that secedes
from the church and forms a new organization
can not claim any of the property.<note place='foot'>Mt. Helen v. Jones, 79 Miss., 488; 30 So., 714.</note> The
civil courts will not interfere with church
management so far as concerns the spiritual
discipline of the members, but where civil
rights of property are involved, the courts
may determine them.<note place='foot'>Prickett v. Wells, 117 Mo., 502; 24 S. W., 52.</note> The civil rights of a
religious society or its members are within
the jurisdiction of the State courts.<note place='foot'>Ferraria v. Vasconcellos, 31 Ill., 25.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_212'/><hi rend='bold'>212.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trust, Court of Equity.</hi>&mdash;A conveyance
in trust for the use of a church
vests the use in the church and it will be
protected by a court of equity.<note place='foot'>Garten v. Penick, 68 Ky., 110.</note>
</p>

<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_213'/><hi rend='bold'>213.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Injunction, Closing Church, Paying
Money, Disturbances.</hi>&mdash;A court of equity
will issue an injunction against the trustees
of a church from wrongfully closing it or
keeping it closed even against a small minority.<note place='foot'>Brunnenmeyer v. Buhre, 31 Ill., 183.</note>
Church property vested in trustees of
a religious body is held under trust and a
court of equity has jurisdiction to enforce
the trust.<note place='foot'>Lawson v. Kolbenson, 61 Ill., 405.</note> A court of equity may restrain
the trustees of a church from paying money
to a duly deposed minister.<note place='foot'>Robertson v. Bullions, 11 N. Y., 243.</note> But a court of
equity will not interfere to quell religious
disturbances when no question as to property
or civil rights is involved. The board
of trustees of a church can not remove a
priest against the will of the congregation.<note place='foot'>Papalion v. Manusos, 113 Ill. App., 316.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_214'/><hi rend='bold'>214.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Suits, Parties.</hi>&mdash;Where a number
of persons have contributed to the erection
of a church, it is not necessary for all who
contribute to join in an action to restrain a
sale of the property for mercantile purposes.<note place='foot'>Avery v. Baker, 27 Neb., 388; 43 N. W., 174.</note>
Any member of a church not incorporated
may come into a court of equity in
behalf of himself and others and enforce the
execution of a trust in favor of the church.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Trustees, 4 N. J. Eq., 77.</note>
The same rule would apply to a church
<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>
where any one in authority is violating the
law.<note place='foot'>Nash v. Sutton, 117 N. C., 231; 23 S. E., 178; Wiswell
v. First, 14 Ohio St., 31.</note> If several congregations of a diocese
are interested in litigation, to hold all the
property of the diocese liable for the debt of
a parish, each congregation is entitled to be
made a party.<note place='foot'>Mannix v. Purcell, 46 Ohio St., 102.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_215'/><hi rend='bold'>215.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Complaint.</hi>&mdash;A complaint that the
plaintiffs hold one doctrinal standard and the
defendants another is sufficiently definite
without explaining the difference between
the two.<note place='foot'>Baker v. Ducker, 79 Cal., 365; 21 Pac., 764.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_216'/><hi rend='bold'>216.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church Tribunal, Courts.</hi>&mdash;Courts
are reluctant to interfere in the church doctrine
or discipline or inquire into the regularity
of the proceedings of the church tribunal.
When such tribunal has deposed a
pastor or expelled a member, it is final.
However, in contracts, property rights, and
civil rights of a citizen, the courts take jurisdiction.
It is no defense to a pastor's expulsion
that there is salary due him.<note place='foot'>Morris v. Dart, 67 S. C., 338; 45 S. E., 753; 100 Am.
St. Rep., 734.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_217'/><hi rend='bold'>217.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Unincorporated Congregation, Actions,
Interest.</hi>&mdash;An unincorporated congregation
may be sued on contract in its associate
capacity, though no persons are named
<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>
as trustees or committeeman.<note place='foot'>Phipps v. Jones, 20 Pa., 260.</note> In all actions
by or against a congregation the civil
courts will not permit suits to be brought by
complainants who have no interest either
legal or equitable in the temporalities of the
church.<note place='foot'>Dolan v. City, 4 Gill., 394.</note> A suit against a society of Shakers
consisting of indefinite membership with
changing additions, withdrawals, and deaths,
whose property is held in common without
any individual interest, may properly be
brought in equity as the remedy at law would
be inadequate.<note place='foot'>Shakers v. Watson, 68 Fed., 730.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_218'/><hi rend='bold'>218.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Blasphemy, Sabbath, Lord's Prayer,
Bible.</hi>&mdash;Christianity is a part of the common
law of the United States; it is on this
ground that blasphemy and violation of the
Sabbath are made criminal offenses and that
the Lord's Prayer and the Bible are used in
the schools.<note place='foot'>61 Cen. L. J., 49 and 55; 57 C. L. J., 201.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XVIII. Evidence</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_219'/><hi rend='bold'>219.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Judicial Notice.</hi>&mdash;A church takes
judicial notice without proof of its own
rules, laws, and doctrines. Every other fact
should be proved according to the rules of
evidence of the church, and in the absence
of a church rule the following rules of the
courts of this country should prevail:
</p>

<p>
1. Nothing should be admitted in evidence
unless it directly proves or disproves
an evidentiary fact forming a link of a chain
of facts that will prove a fact in issue.
</p>

<p>
2. It is sufficient to prove the substance
of the issue, unless the exact word or thing
forms the issue.
</p>

<p>
3. The burden of proof is on the one
who asserts the fact, whether it is stated
affirmatively or negatively, and its proof is
necessary to his making a case.
</p>

<p>
4. The best evidence that the case in its
nature affords must be produced.
</p>

<p>
5. Mere hearsay evidence shall not be
allowed, excepting:
</p>

<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>

<p>
(a) Matters of public or general interest.
</p>

<p>
(b) Declaration against interest.
</p>

<p>
(c) Dying declarations.
</p>

<p>
(d) The testimony of witnesses since
dead or absent.
</p>

<p>
(e) Admissions.
</p>

<p>
(f) Confessions.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_220'/><hi rend='bold'>220.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Competent Witness.</hi>&mdash;Everybody
who has the use of reason and understands
the import of an oath is a competent witness.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_221'/><hi rend='bold'>221.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Confessions, Secret Societies.</hi>&mdash;At
common law, confessions were admissible;
but there is no case in the United States
since 1813 where the court has sent a priest
to jail for contempt for refusing to disclose
a confession, and no case in which a priest
disclosed a confession. Immediately after
a priest was committed for contempt for refusing
to divulge the secrets of the confessional,
in 1813, New York enacted the following
law: <q>No minister of the gospel, or
priest of any denomination whatsoever,
shall be allowed to disclose any confession
made to him in his professional character,
in the course of discipline enjoined by the
rules or practice of such denomination.</q> A
similar law has been adopted in the following
States and Territories: Alabama, Arizona,
California, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa,
<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>
Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri,
Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Ohio,
New York, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Utah,
Washington, Wisconsin, Wyoming, and
Hawaii. The secrets of a secret society are
not privileged, and a member as a witness
must answer all relevant questions in court.<note place='foot'>Owens v. Frank, 7 Wyoming, 457; 53 Pac., 282; 47
Cen. L. J., 221.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_222'/><hi rend='bold'>222.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Privilege, Answer.</hi>&mdash;When a question
concerning a matter privileged is put,
the priest should say: <q>I claim my privilege
as a clergyman and ask the court not to require
me to answer</q>; <q>Whatever he said
concerning the matter, was said to me in the
confessional as a priest</q>; <q>I talked with him
about the matter only in my professional
capacity as a priest and confessor</q>; <q>I did
not speak to him about the matter except
in my confidential capacity as priest;</q> or a
similar statement that sets up the clergyman's
privilege without giving facts. A
clergyman should not say: <q>He confessed
it to me,</q> or <q>He told it to me in confession,</q>
or give any other answer that implies
what was said in confession, as jurors are
always watching for a hint of what was
said. Neither should the priest say, <q>I refuse
to answer,</q> without stating that he
refuses because of his privilege as a clergyman.
<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>
The trial judge or the attorneys trying
the case may put proper questions to
determine whether the information was
given the witness in the confessional or in
his capacity as confessor.<note place='foot'>Evidence, Jones, vol. iii, p. 776.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_223'/><hi rend='bold'>223.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Admissions, False Statements.</hi>&mdash;Admissions
or statements made to a clergyman
not in his capacity of confidential adviser
or in the course of discipline, are not
privileged.<note place='foot'>Gillooley v. State, 58 Ind., 182.</note> Neither are false statements
made to a committee investigating charges;
but all statements made to such a committee
or an officer of the church, unless false and
made with malice, are privileged.<note place='foot'>Knight v. Lee, 80 Ind., 201.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_224'/><hi rend='bold'>224.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Anonymous Letter, Clergyman.</hi>&mdash;Where
a priest received an anonymous letter
alleged to have been written by a defendant,
which he read to her, he was not
disqualified from testifying that she was
excited and that she stated she had no idea
how the fire started, and that the letter was
unknown to her, etc.<note place='foot'>Colbert v. State, 125 Wis., 423; 104 N. W., 61.</note> The mere fact that a
communication is made to a clergyman does
not make it privileged. It is privileged only
when made in confidence of the relation and
under such circumstances as to imply that
it should forever remain a secret in the
<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>
breast of the confidential adviser.<note place='foot'>Hills v. State, 61 Neb., 589; 85 N. W., 836.</note> When
a matter is privileged, it is not left to the
witness whether or not he shall testify concerning
it; but he can not testify without
the consent of the other party.<note place='foot'>Bevins v. Kline, 21 Ind., 37.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_225'/><hi rend='bold'>225.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Voire Dire.</hi>&mdash;Where a priest made
a preliminary examination of a woman to
ascertain her mental capacity to make a confession,
her answers in such preliminary
examination were admissible in a contest on
a will; but her confession was not admissible.<note place='foot'>In re Thomas, 54 Cal., 509.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_226'/><hi rend='bold'>226.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>England, Confession.</hi>&mdash;The rule is
now accorded priests in England, but was
not formerly. Where a priest turned a
watch over to its owner, the court ordered
him, under pain of contempt, to tell where
he got the watch.<note place='foot'>Rex. v. Hoy, 2 F. &amp; F., 4.</note> But in another case it
was held that a priest need not divulge the
confession of a defendant who was held for
crime.<note place='foot'>Rex. v. Griffen, 6 Cox, C. C., 219.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_227'/><hi rend='bold'>227.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>United States, Rules.</hi>&mdash;In the United
States courts, the rule prevails that such
confidential communications to a priest shall
not be divulged.<note place='foot'>Mutual v. Robinson, 19 U. S. App., 266; State v. Morgan,
196 Mo., 177; 95 S. W., 402.</note>
</p>

<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_228'/><hi rend='bold'>228.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Presumptions, Usage.</hi>&mdash;The usage
of a church or the laws of its organization
as a religious society, if they are to be considered
in deciding legal controversies, must
be proved as facts.<note place='foot'>Katzer v. City, 104 Wis., 16; 79 N. W., 745; 80 N.
W., 41.</note> In the absence of
proof, it will be presumed that subordinate
bodies, as congregations, can not dissolve
their connection with the principal organization
without permission.<note place='foot'>Vasconcellos v. Ferraria, 27 Ill., 237.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_229'/><hi rend='bold'>229.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Funeral Expenses.</hi>&mdash;Witnesses'
opinions as to the reasonable amount for
burial or as to the cost of a funeral being
reasonable, are not binding on a court or
jury. The station of a man, the property
that he leaves, the life that he has followed,
all should be considered by the court. The
whims and notions of societies and others
are of minor consideration. Those who
make funeral expenses that are not allowed
by the court must pay them.<note place='foot'>Foley v. Brocksmit, 119 Ia., 457; 93 N. W., 344; 97 Am.
St. R., 324; 60 L. R. A., 571; 18 Cyc, 437-9.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XIX. Contracts</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_230'/><hi rend='bold'>230.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Business, Religious Service.</hi>&mdash;A
church organization has the legal right to
make any contract concerning its own
affairs that is not prohibited by its by-laws
or its charter, subject to all laws of legal
contracts in the business world. When the
consideration is a religious service duly performed,
there seems to be no objection to it.
Therefore, a minister may collect for
preaching a sermon, attending the sick, or
saying prayers, or performing any other
religious service. But an incorporated
church has no authority to enter into a contract
for an ulterior purpose, such as the
employment of a vessel for the purpose of
an excursion.<note place='foot'>Harriman v. First, 63 Ga., 186.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_231'/><hi rend='bold'>231.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Incorporated Body.</hi>&mdash;The only way
a religious society that is incorporated can
make a contract is by a vote of the aggregate
body or of the board of trustees, or
through an agent authorized by a vote of
one body or the other.<note place='foot'>Methodist v. Sherman, 36 Wis., 404.</note>
</p>

<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_232'/><hi rend='bold'>232.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Mortgage, Deficiency Judgment.</hi>&mdash;Where
a mortgage had been foreclosed
against church property before the congregation
was incorporated, a deficiency judgment
can not be rendered against such
church corporation.<note place='foot'>St. Patrick's v. Daly, 116 Ill., 76; 4 N. E., 241.</note> But where a congregation
was incorporated after a debt had
been incurred and took charge of the property,
it assumed the debt.<note place='foot'>Eager v. Inhabitants, 10 Mass., 430.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_233'/><hi rend='bold'>233.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Building Contracts.</hi>&mdash;The taking
part in a meeting by voting and appointing
committees to make contracts will bind those
taking part in all contracts made in accordance
with the directions of such meeting.
In some States the individuals are held only
to the amount that each subscribes, but in
other States each individual is liable for the
entire debt.<note place='foot'>Barnes v. Perrine, 9 Barb., N. Y., 202; Sheehy v. Blake,
77 Wis., 394; 46 N. W., 537; 69 L. R. A., 255; Cutler v.
Thomas, 25 Vt., 13; Allen v. M. E. Church, 127 Ia., 96;
102 N. W., 808; 69 L. R. A., 255 Note.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_234'/><hi rend='bold'>234.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Individual Promise, Subscriptions,
Signature.</hi>&mdash;An individual promise to give
a donation to charity, can not be enforced.<note place='foot'>9 Cyc, 331.</note>
But subscriptions to build a church or other
charitable institution or to pay the salary of
a clergyman when signed by more than one
person, have been held binding in some
<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>
cases on the disputed rule of a-promise-for-a-promise
consideration.<note place='foot'>45 Cent. Dig., 7.</note> In the foregoing
cases the donor might revoke his subscription
or in case of his death his estate would
not be liable.<note place='foot'>45 Cent. Dig., 38.</note> However, when expenses
have been made or steps taken in the carrying
out of the object of the subscriptions,
the general rule is that the subscriptions become
binding contracts.<note place='foot'>45 Cent. Dig., 14.</note> If the object of
the subscriptions be abandoned or changed
without the consent of the subscriber, he is
thereby released. A promissory note given
for the subscription, unless negotiated for
value in due course of trade, does not change
the foregoing rules.<note place='foot'>45 Cent. Dig., 1-54; Am. &amp; Eng. Ency. of Law, <q>Subscriptions.</q></note> Where many persons
subscribed to build a church and some of
them failed to pay, one who paid brought
an action on behalf of himself and others
and collected the unpaid subscriptions.<note place='foot'>Legal Maxims, Broom, 745; Hodges v. Nalty, 104 Wis.,
464; 80 N. W., 726.</note>
The defendant Nalty signed <q>Nalty Family,
$1,000,</q> but he was held personally liable.<note place='foot'>Hodges v. Nalty, 113 Wis., 557; 89 N. W., 535; Hodges
v. O'Brien, 113 Wis., 97; 88 N. W., 901.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_235'/><hi rend='bold'>235.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Special Purpose, Suit.</hi>&mdash;When
money is subscribed for a special purpose,
as for rebuilding a church, it belongs to the
<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>
church organization; and in a suit to recover
the money the action should be brought in
the name of the corporation, if incorporated,
and if not incorporated it should be brought
in the name of the interested party.<note place='foot'>Barnes v. Perine, 9 Bar., N. Y., 202.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_236'/><hi rend='bold'>236.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Promise, Consideration.</hi>&mdash;A promise
made by the owner of land to a trustee
for the benefit of a religious society, that
he would convey the land to such society if
it would build a church thereon, is a good
and lawful consideration; and after work
was begun on the church, the contract was
enforceable in a court of equity.<note place='foot'>Macon v. Shepard, 2 Humphrey, Tenn., 335.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XX. Pews</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_237'/><hi rend='bold'>237.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sold, Rented.</hi>&mdash;Prior to the Reformation
pews were not sold nor rented and
every member had the right to sit wherever
he pleased in the body of the church. After
the Reformation, the ordinary or bishop was
granted the right of <q>faculty</q> to rent or sell
pews.<note place='foot'>O'Hear v. De Goesbriand, 33 Vt., 593; 80 Am. Dec., 662.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_238'/><hi rend='bold'>238.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Incorporeal Hereditament.</hi>&mdash;The
English title in a pew is in the nature of a
right of way through another's land; it is
an incorporeal hereditament. In the absence
of express law, the title to pews in
this country is said to be in the nature of
real estate, and in fact not very different
from the English title.<note place='foot'>Bates v. Sperrell, 10 Mass., 323; Hodges v. Green, 28
Vt., 358; Pres. v. Andrus, 21 N. J. L., 225.</note> In some States the
title is made personal property by statute.<note place='foot'>Church v. Wells, 24 Pa., 249.</note>
And in others the courts have inquired into
the law of the church and adjudged the
title accordingly.<note place='foot'>O'Hear v. De Goesbriand, 33 Vt., 593; 80 Am. Dec., 662.</note> The general rule is that
<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>
the owner of a pew simply has an easement.<note place='foot'>Proprietors v. Roswell, 66 Me., 400; Sohier v. Trinity,
109 Mass., 1; Aylward v. O'Brien, 160 Mass., 118; 35 N.
E., 313; 22 L. R. A., 206.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_239'/><hi rend='bold'>239.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Catholic Church, Pew Rights.</hi>&mdash;In
the Catholic Church, by the canon law, the
ownership in or control over a pew is forbidden
to laymen. Notwithstanding that, if
the party holding the title violates the rule
of the church by giving a deed to the pew-holder,
the courts would probably sustain
his title.<note place='foot'>Aylward v. O'Brien, 160 Mass., 118; 35 N. E., 313; 22
L. R. A., 206; O'Hear v. De Goesbriand, 33 Vt., 593; 80
Am. Dec., 662.</note> However, as the clergy can
neither rent nor sell pews without becoming
subject to the law of the land and the jurisdiction
of our courts, it is important to know
what the law of the State is.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_240'/><hi rend='bold'>240.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Land, Use, Rent Pews.</hi>&mdash;Where
land was conveyed in trust to the bishop of
a diocese and his successors for the erection
of a church for the use of a congregation,
the right to rent pews vested under the deed
and laws of the Catholic Church in the
parish priest and not in the trustees afterward
elected, as the parish priest was the
agent of the bishop.<note place='foot'>Smith v. Bonhoff, 2 Mich., 115.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_241'/><hi rend='bold'>241.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trustees, Sale in Perpetuity.</hi>&mdash;Without
authority of law the trustees of a
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
church can not make an absolute sale in perpetuity
of a pew without any reservation of
rent.<note place='foot'>Vorhees v. Presbyterian, 8 Barb., 135.</note> The sale of a pew in a church will
be determined in a case according to the
particular facts.<note place='foot'>Price v. Lyon, 14 Conn., 280.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_242'/><hi rend='bold'>242.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Pew, Right to Occupy, Conditions.</hi>&mdash;A
grant of a church pew in perpetuity
does not give the owner an absolute right
of property as a grant of land in fee; but
gives only a right to sit therein, although
he may maintain an action in court for protection
of his rights.<note place='foot'>Baptist v. Witherell, 3 Paige, N. Y., 296; 24 Am. Dec.,
223.</note> In Vermont a pewholder
has only the right to occupy his seat
during religious services and holds it subject
to the superior right of the society owning
the pew.<note place='foot'>Perrin v. Granger, 33 Vt., 101.</note> A condition in the deed to
a pew that a holder about to leave the congregation
shall offer it to the society for a
certain price, is not invalid.<note place='foot'>French v. Old, 106 Mass., 479.</note> Where a
pewholder held his pew by a certain agreement
and after the church had been remodeled
he bought a different pew, the conditions
attached to the first pew did not apply
to the last.<note place='foot'>Curry v. First, 2 Pittsburg, 105.</note> Pews owned by the occupant
pass to the heirs as real estate instead of
<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>
going to the executors as personal property
in States where the title is in the nature of
the title to real estate.<note place='foot'>Succession of Gambla, 23 La. Ann., 9.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_243'/><hi rend='bold'>243.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Tax, Assessment.</hi>&mdash;A tax assessed
upon the pew of a religious corporation in
part for purposes not specifically named in
a deed of the pew, which alone gives the
power to make such an assessment and
which strictly defines and limits such power,
is invalid <hi rend='italic'>in toto</hi>.<note place='foot'>First v. Braydon, 91 Mass., 248.</note> The right to make an
assessment on pews must be founded upon
law, else it can not be enforced.<note place='foot'>Downs v. Bowdoin, 149 Mass., 135; 21 N. E., 294.</note> When a
congregation sells pews at auction rent free
for the purpose of building a church, it has
no power thereafter to assess the pews for
the salary of the minister.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Quackenbush, 10 Johnson, 217.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_244'/><hi rend='bold'>244.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Pewholders' Rights.</hi>&mdash;A pewholder
has the exclusive right to occupy his pew
when the house is used for the purpose for
which it was erected; but he can not convert
his pew to other purposes not contemplated.<note place='foot'>Kellogg v. Dickenson, 18 Vt., 266.</note>
If he has paid his pew-rent according
to agreement, he is entitled to use
his pew on all occasions when the house is
occupied, even when it is open for purposes
different from those mentioned in the conveyance
<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>
thereof; and he has the right to exclude
all others from his pew by fastening
the door or otherwise, and any one who
enters his pew knowing the facts, is a trespasser
and liable to an action for damages.<note place='foot'>Jackson v. Rounsville, 5 Metcalf, Mass., 127.</note>
The owner of a pew has no right to put an
offensive covering thereon nor use his pew
in any way to the annoyance of the congregation
or not in keeping with the place and
conditions. By placing anything offensive
about his pew, he may be liable for maintaining
a nuisance, and such offensive thing
may be removed; but, as far as possible, it
must be removed without damaging the
pewholder's property.<note place='foot'>Murray v. Cargill, 32 Me., 517; Gay v. Baker, 17 Mass.,
435; Shaw v. Beveridge, 3 Hill, N. Y., 26; Perrin v.
Granger, 33 Vt., 101.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_245'/><hi rend='bold'>245.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Rebuilding, Remodeling.</hi>&mdash;An injunction
was granted on the bill of pewholders,
restraining the authorities of the
church from pulling it down, as they
were going to use the materials in the
erection of a new church on a different
site. On the answer, the injunction was
dissolved on the ground that if the complainants
had rights which would be violated,
there was a remedy at law and that
the nature and extent of the injury were
not such as called for the interposition of
<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>
a court of equity by injunction.<note place='foot'>Vanhorn v. Tailmadge, 8 N. J. Eq., 108.</note> Where
a parish abandons an old church and builds
a new one it does not become liable to any
pewholder for damages by reason thereof
unless it has acted wantonly or intentionally
to injure the pewholder.<note place='foot'>Fassett v. Boylston, 19 Pickering, Mass., 361.</note> But when it becomes
necessary for the purpose of repairing
or remodeling a church, to destroy old pews,
a pew built by a member under contract with
the church can not be removed or destroyed
without compensation.<note place='foot'>Kimball v. Rowley, 24 Pickering, Mass., 347.</note> Pew rights are
subject to the right of the parish to pull
down and rebuild a church either as a matter
of necessity or expediency, but in the
latter case the owner of a pew is entitled to
payment.<note place='foot'>Aylward v. O'Brien, 160 Mass., 118; 35 N. E., 313; 22
L. R. A., 206; Van Houten v. Trustees, 17 N. J. Eq., 126.</note> A pewholder has only the right
to occupy his pew during public worship,
and when the church has become so out of
repair that it can not be used for public worship,
the owner of a pew can recover only
nominal damages for injuries to his pew.<note place='foot'>Howard v. Stevens, 47 Vt., 262.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_246'/><hi rend='bold'>246.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Selling Pew on Execution.</hi>&mdash;In an
action to recover the value of a pew sold at
auction, the merits of the case will be tried
according to the law of the land.<note place='foot'>Stoddard v. Vestry, 2 Gill. &amp; J., Md., 227.</note> It is
<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>
doubtful whether a pew in a church can be
sold for private debts of the pewholder.<note place='foot'>City v. McIntyre, 8 Rob., La., 467.</note>
It depends somewhat upon the title and
State law of exemptions.<note place='foot'>Sargent v. Pierce, 43 Mass., 80.</note> To render an
attachment of a pew valid, it is not necessary
for the officer to come in sight of the
pew or even to enter the church.<note place='foot'>Perrin v. Leverett, 13 Mass., 128.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_247'/><hi rend='bold'>247.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Members, Pew.</hi>&mdash;Members of the
congregation may be required to pay for a
pew or sitting in the church, and where a
priest ejected a member from the church because
he would not rent a pew, he was sustained
by the court.<note place='foot'>Crowley v. Miller, 19 N. Y. Weekly Dig., 262.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_248'/><hi rend='bold'>248.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Free Church, Seats, Lease.</hi>&mdash;The
trustees of a free church may assign seats
and forcibly remove one from a seat without
authority.<note place='foot'>Sheldon v. Vail, 28 Hun., 354.</note> Where a pew is real estate,
a pewholder may acquire the right to it by
prescription in the usual way.<note place='foot'>Price v. Lyons, 14 Conn., 280.</note> Where
pews are not rented and the members support
the church by voluntary subscriptions,
they have equal right to the occupancy of
the pews. But where the church builds the
pews and rents them, a man paying rent for
a pew holds it under lease in the nature of
a lease to real estate. However, he does
<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>
not obtain all the rights of a lessee of land,
and in many cases a rule of the church governs
the holding of pews, which will be
observed by the State courts.<note place='foot'>Perrin v. Granger, 33 Vt., 101.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_249'/><hi rend='bold'>249.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Executors, Pew-Rent.</hi>&mdash;The executors
of a pew owner are not bound to pay
pew-rent accrued after the owner's death.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_250'/><hi rend='bold'>250.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Voting, Pew-Rent, Arrears.</hi>&mdash;Where
a church is incorporated and by its charter
or the laws of the State it has authority to
make reasonable by-laws, a by-law which
prohibits any person from voting whose
pew-rent is in arrears for more than two
years, is valid.<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. Cain, 5 Srg. &amp; R., Pa., 510.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXI. Property</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_251'/><hi rend='bold'>251.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Unincorporated, Trustee.</hi>&mdash;The
question whether an unincorporated religious
society may take a gift or devise, is
determined by the law of domicile.<note place='foot'>In re Bullock, 6 Dem. Sur., 335; Heiss v. Murphy, 40
Wis., 276; Ruth v. Oberbrunner, 40 Wis., 238.</note> Generally
an unincorporated religious association
can not hold property in its assumed name,
but it must be held by conveyance in trust
to a trustee named.<note place='foot'>Ruth v. Oberbrunner, 40 Wis., 238; Goesele v. Bimeler,
55 U. S., 589; 14 L. Ed., 554; Van Houten v. Trustees, 17
N. J. Eq., 126.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_252'/><hi rend='bold'>252.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charter, By-Laws.</hi>&mdash;When the
charter or by-laws of a church corporation
provide that they may be altered, such
changes may, after the execution and delivery
of a deed, immediately adhere to the
title.<note place='foot'>Winnepesaukee v. Gordon, 63 N. H., 505; 3 At., 426.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_253'/><hi rend='bold'>253.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Suits, Corporation, Members.</hi>&mdash;Cases
may occur in which the corporation
in its corporate capacity, or the society in
its collective capacity, may be a plaintiff or
a defendant in a suit between it and one or
<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>
more members of the religious society in
their individual capacity or in their collective
capacity, in a quasi-conspiracy or concerning
other torturous acts, or a collective
contract.<note place='foot'>Bethel v. Carmack, 2 Md., Ch., 143; Tartar v. Gibbs,
24 Md., 323.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_254'/><hi rend='bold'>254.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Deed, Court, Title.</hi>&mdash;A deed made
in pursuance of an order of a court having
jurisdiction passes good title.<note place='foot'>Lynch v. Pfeiffer, 110 N. Y., 33; 17 N. E., 402.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_255'/><hi rend='bold'>255.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Subscription, Lots.</hi>&mdash;Any one may
convey title to a church as his part of the
subscription by merely marking it on a plat
made by him, as lots donated to such
church.<note place='foot'>Enos v. Chestnut, 88 Ill., 590.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_256'/><hi rend='bold'>256.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Misnomer, Identity.</hi>&mdash;The misnomer
of a religious society or corporation
will not invalidate a mortgage where the
identity of the society can be clearly shown.<note place='foot'>Walwrath v. Camel, 28 Mich., 111.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_257'/><hi rend='bold'>257.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Adverse Possession, Color of Title.</hi>&mdash;A
religious corporation may obtain title
to land by adverse possession. The length
of such possession is determined by the laws
of the State, the usual period being twenty
years.<note place='foot'>Harpending v. Reformed, 41 U. S., 455; 10 L. Ed., 1029.</note> Unless the laws of the State require
it, color of title at the time of asserting adverse
possession need not be shown.<note place='foot'>Inhabitants v. Catholics, 40 Mass., 139; People v. Trinity,
22 N. Y., 44.</note>
</p>

<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_258'/><hi rend='bold'>258.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sale, Restrictions.</hi>&mdash;In some States
when not restricted by the laws of the organization
the parish corporation may sell
the premises in order to pay the church
debts. However, it is not a common law
right.<note place='foot'>Lynch v. Pfeiffer, 110 N. Y., 33; 17 N. E., 402; Eggleston
v. Doolittle, 33 Conn., 396.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_259'/><hi rend='bold'>259.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Deed.</hi>&mdash;A deed to <q>The Evangelical
Order of Christians</q> was sufficiently
definite for a valid conveyance.<note place='foot'>Tomlin v. Blunt, 31 Ill. App., 234.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_260'/><hi rend='bold'>260.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Error.</hi>&mdash;A clerical error in the
name of the grantee will not make a deed
void. However, when such error has been
discovered, it should be corrected.<note place='foot'>Centenary v. Parker, 43 N. J. Eq., 307; 12 At., 142.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_261'/><hi rend='bold'>261.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Mortgage, Bishop, Debts.</hi>&mdash;The
archbishop of a church to which property
is bequeathed, can not mortgage it without
authority from the church or under the
law.<note place='foot'>Levasseur v. Martin, 11 La. Ann., 684.</note> Also, the bishop of a diocese to
whom land had been conveyed in trust for
a particular congregation, could not execute
a valid mortgage thereon to secure his own
indebtedness.<note place='foot'>O'Donnell v. Holden, 21 Weekly Law Bulletin, 254.</note> But a religious society in
the absence of prohibitionary legislation,
has power to mortgage its property to secure
its debts.<note place='foot'>Walwrath v. Camel, 28 Mich., 111.</note>
</p>

<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_262'/><hi rend='bold'>262.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Deed, Trust, Fee.</hi>&mdash;A deed of land
to a Catholic bishop and his heirs and assigns
forever in trust for a Catholic parish
for the purpose of a free burial ground,
gave the bishop an estate in fee.<note place='foot'>Fitzpatrick v. Fitzgerald, 79 Mass., 400.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_263'/><hi rend='bold'>263.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Debts, Creditors.</hi>&mdash;A committee of
a religious society authorized to sell lands
to raise money to pay its general debts, is
not authorized to execute a mortgage for
the purpose of securing various creditors
holding claims; and the defect in such mortgage
is not cured by a vote at a subsequent
meeting to which the committee made a report
of its action.<note place='foot'>Hubbard v. German, 34 Ia., 31.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_264'/><hi rend='bold'>264.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Mortgage or Sale, Notice, Consent.</hi>&mdash;Whenever
there is to be a mortgage or
sale of the church property, if it is to be
done by the corporation, it must be done
strictly in accordance with the charter and
laws of the corporation, and if those do not
provide therefor, every member should receive
a reasonable notice to attend a meeting
of the congregation and the question should
be submitted to such meeting and a vote
taken thereon. If all the proceedings are
regular and the proper officers (president
and secretary) of the corporation be authorized
<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>
to make a conveyance, it is good in law.<note place='foot'>In re First, 106 N. Y., 251; 12 N. E., 626; Wiswell v.
First, 14 Ohio St., 31.</note>
However, if the irregular acts of officers or
members of a congregation are subsequently
ratified in a lawful manner, they become
binding.<note place='foot'>Scott v. First, 50 Mich., 528; 15 N. W., 891.</note> When consent of the court is
required, it must be obtained.<note place='foot'>In re First, 106 N. Y., 251; 12 N. E., 626.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_265'/><hi rend='bold'>265.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Title, Taxes, Judicial Notice.</hi>&mdash;If
the title is in the bishop in fee in accordance
with church law it is not <q>owned by any
religious association</q> and is liable for taxes.
The laws of the Catholic Church are not
the subject of judicial notice, but must be
alleged and proved as any other fact.<note place='foot'>Katzer v. City of Milwaukee, 104 Wis., 16; 79 N. W.,
745; 80 N. W., 41.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_266'/><hi rend='bold'>266.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Title, Diocese, Rule.</hi>&mdash;Where the
title to the property of the diocese was in
the bishop for the use of the church and
subsequently the diocese was incorporated,
the bishop was not divested of title and it
was still necessary to have the property conveyed
by deed.<note place='foot'>Beckwith v. St. Phillip's Parish, 69 Ga., 564.</note> In some other States, however,
the contrary rule prevails.<note place='foot'>Miller v. Chittenden, 2 Ia., 315; 4 Ia., 252; Schenectady
v. Veeder, 4 Wendell, N. Y., 494.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_267'/><hi rend='bold'>267.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Priest, Deed, Funds.</hi>&mdash;Where it
was claimed that a priest purchased lands
and took the deed in his own name and paid
<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>
therefor with funds belonging to the congregation,
the conveyance will not be decreed
by the court only upon the clearest
and most satisfactory evidence.<note place='foot'>St. Patrick's v. Daly, 116 Ill., 76.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_268'/><hi rend='bold'>268.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Monks, Missions, Title.</hi>&mdash;The fact
that the monks or priests were at the head
of the missions in California when it was
acquired by the United States, does not
prove that the Catholic Church had universal
ownership of the property.<note place='foot'>Nobilli v. Redman, 6 Cal., 325.</note> The
acts of Congress giving the city of San Antonio
authority to sell public lands, was intended,
no doubt, to dispose of mission property,
but it was held not to affect the Catholic
Church, the title to which had been confirmed
by another act of Congress.<note place='foot'>San Antonio v. Odin, 15 Tex., 539.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_269'/><hi rend='bold'>269.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Texan Revolution, Land.</hi>&mdash;At the
time of the Texan Revolution, a Catholic
church held no real estate of perfect title,
but enjoyed only the use of the land that it
possessed and continued so to occupy after
the admission of Texas into the Union.<note place='foot'>Blair v. Odin, 3 Tex., 288.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_270'/><hi rend='bold'>270.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Priest, Agent, Deed.</hi>&mdash;The priest
in charge of a congregation is the agent of
the archbishop, and where the title to the
real estate is conveyed by absolute deed to
the bishop, the congregation, against the
<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>
protest of the priest and without obtaining
leave from the bishop, has no right to tear
down a church for the purpose of rebuilding
or repairing it.<note place='foot'>Heiss v. Vosburg, 59 Wis., 532; 18 N. W., 463.</note> And a priest in charge
of mission property may maintain in his
name an action to recover its possession.<note place='foot'>Santillan v. Moses, 1 Cal., 92.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_271'/><hi rend='bold'>271.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Devise, Uncertainty.</hi>&mdash;A devise of
property <q>to the Roman Catholic Orphans</q>
of a certain diocese, making the bishop of
the diocese executor of the will and giving
him power to sell the property and use the
proceeds for the benefit of the Roman
Catholic orphans, is void for uncertainty.<note place='foot'>Heiss v. Murphy, 40 Wis., 276.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_272'/><hi rend='bold'>272.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Donor, Ambiguous Provision.</hi>&mdash;The
religious convictions of the donor may
be shown for the purpose of construing an
ambiguous provision of a deed or will.<note place='foot'>Robertson v. Bullions, 11 N. Y., 243.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_273'/><hi rend='bold'>273.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trust, Evidence.</hi>&mdash;Without any
trust being declared in writing, parol evidence
can not be allowed to prove that the
Catholic Church and parsonage is held in
trust for the congregation by the bishop of
the diocese, notwithstanding that the
moneys for purchasing the lands and putting
up such buildings were collected by
subscriptions and contributions made to the
priest in charge under the law, usage, and
<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>
polity of the Roman Catholic Church.<note place='foot'>Hennessey v. Walsh, 55 N. H., 515.</note> At
common law land may be granted to pious
uses before there is a grantee to take it. In
the meantime, the title is in abeyance.<note place='foot'>Pawlet v. Clarke, 13 U. S., 292; 3 L. Ed., 735.</note>
Where the title to parsonage lands is in the
minister as a sole corporation, on his death
the title remains in abeyance until a successor
is appointed.<note place='foot'>Cheever v. Pierson, 33 Mass., 266.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_274'/><hi rend='bold'>274.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Money, Control.</hi>&mdash;Money raised by
a Catholic congregation for the purpose of
building a church does not come under the
absolute control of the bishop or priest,
although put into the hands of the latter for
safe keeping. It is subject to the control of
the congregation, although the members of
the congregation refused to obey the command
of the bishop of the diocese to consolidate
with another church to which the
priest was removed.<note place='foot'>Amish v. Gelhaus, 71 Ia., 170; 32 N. W., 318.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_275'/><hi rend='bold'>275.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church, Building, Removing.</hi>&mdash;Where
subscriptions were secured to build
a church at a particular place as a memorial
to a certain person, a congregation may be
enjoined from tearing down the building
and removing it to another place.<note place='foot'>Cushman v. Church, 162 Pa., 280; 29 At., 472.</note> But a
court of equity will not prevent the removal
<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>
of a church where a majority of the congregation
favors it, although a legal meeting
had not been held to determine the
matter.<note place='foot'>Kulinsky v. Dambrowski, 29 Wis., 109.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_276'/><hi rend='bold'>276.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church, Use, Division.</hi>&mdash;A church
guild that erected a building adjoining a
church for parish purposes, with the assent
of the congregation, can not deny the authority
of the church and use the building
for other purposes.<note place='foot'>Reed v. Church, 6 Pa. Co. Ct., 76.</note> But if members are
improperly excluded from the use of the
church property they must appeal to the
courts for redress and can not resort to acts
of trespass to gain entrance into a church.<note place='foot'>Fulbright v. Higgenbotham, 133 Mo., 668; 34 S. W.,
875; People v. Runkel, 9 Johnson, 147; Central v. Patterson,
30 N. Y. Supp., 248; Unangst v. Shortz, 5 Horton,
Pa., 506.</note>
A court of equity will compel persons having
charge of the temporalities of a church,
whether incorporated or not, to faithfully
perform their trust and to prevent the diversion
of the property from its original
purposes. The court will not interfere in
strictly religious matters.<note place='foot'>Bowden v. MacLeod, 1 Edw., N. Y., 588; Gable v. Miller,
10 Paige, N. Y., 627; Wilson v. Johns, 2 Rich., S. C.,
Eq., 192; Ferraria v. Vasconcellos, 31 Ill., 25.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_277'/><hi rend='bold'>277.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Spanish Territory.</hi>&mdash;When Alabama
was a part of Spanish territory, a deed
of land <q>to His Catholic Majesty for the
<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>
purpose of building thereon a parochial
church and dwelling-house for the officiating
priest,</q> the money being paid out of the
royal treasury, did not constitute the King
of Spain a trustee for the church or transfer
to the church in equity a title to the
lots.<note place='foot'>Antones v. Eslava's heirs, 9 Port., 527.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_278'/><hi rend='bold'>278.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trust, Purposes, Doctrines.</hi>&mdash;When
a conveyance of a lot is made to certain
persons of a religious society and their
successors in trust for religious purposes,
all the members become beneficiaries in equal
degree notwithstanding some of them may
have contributed larger sums than others.<note place='foot'>Ferraria v. Vasconcellos, 31 Ill., 25; Brunnenmeyer v.
Buhre, 32 Ill., 183.</note>
Land conveyed to a church for valuable consideration
belongs to the church, whatever
change may take place in its religious doctrines;
and if a minority secedes on the
ground that they are the ones who retain the
original tenets of the church, they can not
take with them either the whole or pro rata
share of the church property.<note place='foot'>Organ v. Seaford, 1 Dev., N. C. Eq., 453; Post 290, 319.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_279'/><hi rend='bold'>279.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Control, Revenues.</hi>&mdash;The trustees
of a corporation of a church or of a religious
society have entire control over the revenues
of such body.<note place='foot'>Gram v. Prussia, 36 N. Y., 161; Reformed v. Draper, 97
Mass., 349.</note>
</p>

<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_280'/><hi rend='bold'>280.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Leave to Purchase, Title, Canons
of the Church.</hi>&mdash;A congregation wanted to
buy a church and priest's house, but the
archbishop refused leave to purchase, but
granted permission to keep the premises for
religious purposes for a time. The members
formed a society and bought and took
title in the name of the <q>Lithuanian Benefit
Society of St. Anthony.</q> Then the archbishop
wrote them a letter requiring the
deed of the premises to be put in his name,
which the congregation refused to do. A
part of the congregation brought a suit in
equity to enforce the transfer from the society
to the archbishop. The court held
that if the congregation was under the
church and acknowledged its authority, the
title must be settled by the canons of the
church; otherwise, the majority of the congregation,
in a duly called meeting, should
determine where the title should be vested.<note place='foot'>Dochkus v. Lithuanian, 206 Pa., 25; 55 At., 779.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_281'/><hi rend='bold'>281.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Cemetery, Authority.</hi>&mdash;When a
congregation that had title to a cemetery
for many years entrusted the management
and sale of the lots to the priest, he had
thereby authority to create servitudes, such
as alleys to lots, which become binding on
the congregation and all third persons.<note place='foot'>Burke v. Wall, 29 La. Ann., 38.</note>
</p>

<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_282'/><hi rend='bold'>282.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Real Estate, Purpose.</hi>&mdash;A church
has no power to acquire and hold real estate
for any purpose other than that of promoting
the object of its creation, and any contract
entered into for a purchase of real
estate as a matter of speculation is <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>ultra
vires</foreign> and void.<note place='foot'>Thompson v. West, 59 Neb., 677; 82 N. W., 13; 49 L.
R. A., 337.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_283'/><hi rend='bold'>283.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Limitation, Lands.</hi>&mdash;A statute of
the State prohibiting a religious society
from holding more than twenty acres, applies
to a single parish or congregation and
not to the entire denomination when it consists
of more than one congregation.<note place='foot'>Morgan v. Leslie, Wright, O., 144.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_284'/><hi rend='bold'>284.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Conditions, Bequest, Deed, Time.</hi>&mdash;Where
property has been devised for a
particular purpose or on certain conditions
attached thereto, the law may be invoked to
protect the fund according to the bequest.<note place='foot'>Consistory v. Brandow, 52 Barb., N. Y., 228.</note>
And where a deed contained a clause that
the lots should never be sold nor used in any
other way except for the benefit of a specified
Protestant Church, although the deed
contained no clause of forfeiture, when the
congregation sold the property the grantor
was entitled to have the deed set aside and
the title re-vested in himself.<note place='foot'>Grisson v. Hill, 17 Ark., 483.</note> And a grant
<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>
made upon condition that a church be
erected thereon, prevents the grantee from
conveying it for other purposes without the
consent of the grantor or his heirs.<note place='foot'>Scott v. Stipe, 12 Ind., 74; Mills v. Davison, 54 N. J.
Eq., 659; 35 At., 1072; 35 L. R. A., 113.</note> But
where a devise was made on condition that
a church be built on the property within
three years, the provision being a condition
subsequent, a court has the right to extend
the time.<note place='foot'>Appeal of Tappen, 52 Conn., 412.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_285'/><hi rend='bold'>285.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Will, Forfeiture.</hi>&mdash;The provision in
a will or deed that land shall be used for
purposes of a certain church, may create a
trust for the benefit of the church only and
not a condition the breach of which would
work a forfeiture.<note place='foot'>Neely v. Hoskins, 84 Me., 386; 24 At., 882.</note> When a condition is
put in a deed that it shall be forever used as
a burial ground for the interment of bodies,
it is doubtful whether the grantor and
grantee together may change the uses of the
property. Therefore, it is important in
taking deeds to cemeteries to have no condition
whatever, unless such conditions are
desired.<note place='foot'>Second v. Dugan, 65 Md., 460; 5 At., 415.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_286'/><hi rend='bold'>286.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Condition, Quit-Claim.</hi>&mdash;After conveying
land upon a specified condition, the
grantor then gave a quit-claim deed, and the
<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>
court held that that relieved the grant from
the condition.<note place='foot'>Craig v. Inhabitants, 58 Me., 479.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_287'/><hi rend='bold'>287.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bishop, Trust, Successors.</hi>&mdash;A
deed of land to the bishop of a church for a
Protestant Episcopal church in fee simple,
created a trust and on the death of such
bishop the title passed to his successors.<note place='foot'>Beckwith v. St. Phillip's Church, 68 Ga., 564.</note>
Where a grantee in a deed absolute on its
face, is in fact archbishop of the Roman
Catholic Church for his diocese, its canons
and decrees regulating the mode of acquiring
and holding church property are competent
evidence to show that the property is
so held in trust for purposes for public worship
and other charitable uses. And property
so held by a Catholic bishop in trust for
the diocese, or in trust for a congregation,
school, cemetery, or asylum, for the separate
use of each, is not chargeable with any part
of the expenses of another one or for improving
the church property generally in the
diocese.<note place='foot'>Mannix v. Purcell, 46 Ohio St., 102; 19 N. E., 572; 2 L.
R. A., 753.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_288'/><hi rend='bold'>288.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trustees, Vacancy.</hi>&mdash;When land is
conveyed to certain persons as trustees of a
church and their successors lawfully appointed,
a court of equity will not step in to
fill a vacancy but will leave that to be filled
<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>
by the church in accordance with its discipline.<note place='foot'>Draper v. Minor, 36 Mo., 290.</note>
But an attempt to sell real estate of
a religious society against the provisions of
its charter, will be prevented by a court of
equity.<note place='foot'>Burton's Appeal, 57 Pa. St., 213.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_289'/><hi rend='bold'>289.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church, Majority, Change.</hi>&mdash;When
property is conveyed to a church having a
well-known doctrine, faith, and practice, a
majority of the members has not the authority
or power by reason of a change of religious
views to carry the property thus dedicated
to a new and different doctrine.<note place='foot'>Smith v. Pedigo, 145 Ind., 361; 33 N. E., 777; 44 N. E.,
363; 32 L. R. A., 838.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_290'/><hi rend='bold'>290.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Title, Harmony, Division.</hi>&mdash;The
title to church property in a divided congregation
is in that part of the congregation
which acts in harmony with the law of the
denomination; and the ecclesiastical laws
and principles which were accepted among
them before the dispute began, are the standard
for determining which party is right.<note place='foot'>Free Ch. of Scotland v. Overton, Appeal Cases, House of
Lords, 1904; McGinnis v. Watson, 41 Pa. St., 9; Ante, 278.</note>
In other cases the division of church property,
where there is a division of the congregation,
depends upon its particular facts.<note place='foot'>First v. Rauss, 21 Conn., 160; Watson v. Jones, 13
Wallace, 679; 20 L. Ed., 666.</note>
Where $400 was bequeathed to a Lutheran
<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>
congregation in S&mdash;&mdash;, there being at the
time of the making of the will but one Lutheran
congregation in the place, but subsequently
a majority of the trustees and members
with the pastor left the church and
built a new one, the old church continued
vested with the title to the property and all
its funds.<note place='foot'>App. v. Lutheran, 6 Pa. St., 201.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_291'/><hi rend='bold'>291.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Perversion, Misuse, Suit.</hi>&mdash;Unless
there is substantial departure from the purpose
of the trust which amounts to a perversion
of it, a court of equity will not interfere
to prevent the misuse or abuse of a
trust of a religious nature. In actions in the
State court, if the church is not incorporated,
an action should be brought in the names of
the members collectively, and if they are too
numerous to be all named, the suit may be
brought in the name of one or more of them
for the whole. The same rules apply to religious
societies when sued. However, in
some dioceses, particularly in the Catholic
Church, the title to the church property is
in the bishop and he thereby becomes an interested
party who must be made either a
plaintiff or a defendant.<note place='foot'>Keller v. Tracy, 11 Ia., 530; Happy v. Morton, 33 Ill.,
398; Leftwig v. Thornton, 18 Ia., 56.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_292'/><hi rend='bold'>292.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Rights, Contracts, Torts, Crimes.</hi>&mdash;Vested
property rights, contracts, torts,
<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>
and crimes, are usually subject to the laws
of the State and the control and judgment
of a church tribunal is seldom final. While
the State courts have no ecclesiastical jurisdiction
and can not revise or question ordinary
acts of church discipline, they have the
power to adjudicate conflicting claims of
parties to the church property or the use
of it.<note place='foot'>Watson v. Jones, 13 Wallace, 679; 20 L. Ed., 666.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_293'/><hi rend='bold'>293.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Cemetery, Assessments.</hi>&mdash;Where a
lot was bought for the purpose of building a
church but was used for a cemetery, and a
church was built at another place and the
deed to the lot was taken in the name of the
trustees, the pastor and a member of the
church corporation were not the proper
parties to bring an action to restrain the
State from selling the lot to pay the assessments
for pavement, as they had no legal or
equitable interest for the protection of which
they could claim the interposition of a court
of equity.<note place='foot'>Dolan v. Mayor, 4 Gill., Md., 394.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_294'/><hi rend='bold'>294.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Burned, Revert, Vested.</hi>&mdash;The fact
that a church on lands donated to the parish,
on condition of sustaining the church,
burned down, the title did not revert to the
grantor's heirs.<note place='foot'>Goode v. McPherson, 51 Mo., 126.</note> Also land granted a bishop
for church uses, vested immediately in him
<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>
and was not forfeited because it was not
used for church purposes.<note place='foot'>Olcott v. Gabert, 86 Tex., 121; 23 S. W., 985.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_295'/><hi rend='bold'>295.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Abandoned, Revert.</hi>&mdash;Land granted
to trustees and their successors forever in
trust to erect a Methodist church, according
to its rules and discipline, which was used
for such church for a long time and then
abandoned and sold to parties who converted
it into a blacksmith shop, did not thereupon
revert in the absence of a provision to that
effect.<note place='foot'>Strong v. Doty, 32 Wis., 381.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_296'/><hi rend='bold'>296.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Uses and Trusts.</hi>&mdash;The chapter of
the Wisconsin statutes on religious societies,
although not included in the same title as
the chapter abolishing all uses and trusts
excepting as therein created, was not intended
to prohibit the trusts expressly authorized
by the former.<note place='foot'>Fadness v. Braunburg, 73 Wis., 257; 41 N. W., 84.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_297'/><hi rend='bold'>297.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trust Funds, Account.</hi>&mdash;Where a
member of the church received funds to invest
in his own name for the benefit of the
church, he will be obliged in a court of equity
to give full account for the money and its
profits.<note place='foot'>Weld v. May, 9 Cushing, Mass., 181.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_298'/><hi rend='bold'>298.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Fund, Diverted, Split.</hi>&mdash;A fund
created for a particular purpose, as the education
of children in the faith and doctrines
<pb n='161'/><anchor id='Pg161'/>
of a denomination at the time the fund is
created, can not be diverted from its original
object.<note place='foot'>Field v. Field, 9 Wendell, N. Y., 394; Stokes v. Dale,
14 N. Y., 901.</note> Neither can such a fund be split
up when a congregation is divided, but must
be retained as created.<note place='foot'>Hendrickson v. Shotwell, 1 N. J. Eq., 577; Calkins v.
Cheney, 92 Ill., 463; Park v. Chaplain, 96 Ia., 55; 64 N.
W., 674.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_299'/><hi rend='bold'>299.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church, Personalty.</hi>&mdash;A church removed
from its foundation and put on rollers
was severed from the realty and became personal
property.<note place='foot'>Beech v. Allen, 7 Hun., 441.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_300'/><hi rend='bold'>300.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Lease, Purposes.</hi>&mdash;A religious literary
society and scientific corporation has
power to lease part of a building owned by
it for theatrical and operatic purposes.<note place='foot'>Catholic v. Gibbons, 3 Weekly Law Bulletin, 581.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_301'/><hi rend='bold'>301.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Salary, Lien, Equity.</hi>&mdash;The church
building and the land on which it stands have
been held subject to the payment of a debt
due for the salary of a pastor of the congregation
owning such property.<note place='foot'>Lyons v. Planters, 86 Ga., 485.</note> A contractor
is entitled to a lien on the church
property for work done on the building.<note place='foot'>African v. Duru, 19 La. Ann., 302; Harrisburg v. Washburn,
29 Oregon, 150; 44 Pac., 390.</note>
A person who became liable for the debts of
the congregation incurred in the purchase
of church property, obtained relief in equity
<pb n='162'/><anchor id='Pg162'/>
by subjecting the church property to a
sale.<note place='foot'>Lynn v. Carson, 32 Grat., Va., 170.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_302'/><hi rend='bold'>302.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bankruptcy, Creditors.</hi>&mdash;There is
no provision of law for a church corporation
to make an assignment in bankruptcy. However,
the church corporation may be sued
and a receiver appointed to take possession
of the property and sequester the assets.<note place='foot'>Proprietor v. Butler, 56 Mass., 597.</note>
But where assignments in bankruptcy and a
sale and conveyance of church property are
lawful, the church property may be assigned
for the benefit of the creditors.<note place='foot'>DeRuyter v. St. Peter's, 3 N. Y., 238.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_303'/><hi rend='bold'>303.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Jurisdiction, Process.</hi>&mdash;In order to
obtain jurisdiction where there are contentions
between various persons claiming to be
officers, the only safe rule is to serve the
process on all those who are in the offices or
claim the offices upon the occupants of which
the papers must be served.<note place='foot'>Perrian v. Methodist, 4 Abbot's Pr., N. Y., 424;
Unangst v. Shortz, 5 Horton, Pa. St., 506; Trustees v.
Hoessli, 13 Wis., 348.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_304'/><hi rend='bold'>304.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>States, Property, Restrictions.</hi>&mdash;Some
States restrict the quantity and use of
property that a religious society or church
may hold. Other States have no restrictions;
but nearly all the States have some
statutory law on the subject, which is
changed so frequently that it would be useless
<pb n='163'/><anchor id='Pg163'/>
to give the provisions of such law in
this work.<note place='foot'>Miller v. Chittenden, 2 Ia., 315; Church v. Grace, 68
N. Y., 570; Gilmer v. Stone, 120 U. S., 586; 30 L. Ed.,
734; Kinney v. Kinney's Executors, 86 Ky., 610; 6 S. W.,
593.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_305'/><hi rend='bold'>305.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Land, Limitation.</hi>&mdash;A statute of
Illinois relating to Catholic societies contains
no limitations on property rights, but
it was held that the general law applied, and
that an organization having ten acres could
not acquire additional land by devise. A
conveyance of land to a corporation after it
has taken all the land allowed by law, is
void.<note place='foot'>St. Peter's v. German, 104 Ill., 440.</note> In Kentucky where a church is limited
to fifty acres and a devise was made to
a church for the benefit of foreign missions,
it was held valid under a statute providing
that all devises for relief of aged, impotent,
poor people, churches, or for any other
charitable or humane purposes, shall be
valid.<note place='foot'>Kinney v. Kinney's Executors, 86 Ky., 610; 6 S. W.,
593.</note> Maryland's peculiar law by which
leave must be obtained from the Legislature
for a conveyance of more than two acres of
land, has been construed to give the Legislature
authority to ratify a conveyance that
otherwise would be void under the statute.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Manning, 72 Md., 116; 19 At., 599.</note>
Also, it was held in the same case that a
church might acquire more land, but that
<pb n='164'/><anchor id='Pg164'/>
it would be restricted with regard to its use.
A statute prohibiting a religious society
from holding more than twenty acres of
land applied to a single religious society and
not to the denomination.<note place='foot'>Morgan v. Leslie, Wright, 144.</note> Where the territorial
law provided that no religious corporation
should hold real estate of greater
value than $50,000, a receiver was appointed
for the Mormon corporation.<note place='foot'>U. S. v. Church, 5 Utah, 361; 15 Pac., 473.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_306'/><hi rend='bold'>306.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Corporations, Bequests.</hi>&mdash;Foreign
religious corporations may be entitled to recover
bequests made to them in some States;
but the general rule is that a foreign religious
society has no better right to take property
by devise than a domestic corporation.<note place='foot'>In re Ticknor's estate, 13 Mich., 44; Levy v. Levy, 33
N. Y., 97.</note>
When the statute requires a conveyance to
specify the purpose for which a religious
society takes land, the failure to so specify
renders the deed void.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Hilkin, 84 Md., 170; 35 At., 9.</note> But the Young
Men's Christian Association was declared
not within the limitation because it was not
formed for pecuniary benefit and profit and
was not under the control of any one denomination
nor formed for religious worship.<note place='foot'>Hamsher v. Hamsher, 132 Ill., 273; 23 N. E., 1123; 8
L. R. A., 556.</note>
</p>

<pb n='165'/><anchor id='Pg165'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_307'/><hi rend='bold'>307.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Collateral Attack.</hi>&mdash;A devise of
land to a religious society which will increase
the title beyond the amount that is allowed
by statute, can not be attacked collaterally
by a private individual.<note place='foot'>Hanson v. Little Sisters, 79 Md., 434; 32 At., 1052;
Jones v. Habersham, 107 U. S., 174; 27 L. Ed., 401.</note> It is for the State
and not for the individual to make inquiry
into excess on the part of a religious society
in its accumulation.<note place='foot'>Church v. Grace, 68 N. Y., 570.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='166'/><anchor id='Pg166'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXII. Religious Services</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_308'/><hi rend='bold'>308.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Worship, Discipline, Innovations.</hi>&mdash;The
denomination itself, according to its
rules and regulations, determines what
services shall form a part of its public worship.
The inferior authority in the church
has no right to violate the discipline by innovations.
Whether or not devotional singing
may be accompanied with instrumental
music, must be determined by those who administer
the discipline of the church.<note place='foot'>Tartar v. Gibbs, 24 Md., 323.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_309'/><hi rend='bold'>309.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Doctrines, Temporal Affairs.</hi>&mdash;The
fact that the congregation sells the pews
does not give the owners the right to determine
what doctrines shall be preached in
the church, nor who shall preach them.<note place='foot'>Trinitarian v. Union, 61 N. H., 384.</note> A
majority of a local church can not change
the faith of the church against the protest
of the minority.<note place='foot'>Smith v. Pedigo, 145 Ind., 361; 44 N. E., 363; 32 L. R.
A., 838.</note> The corporation of the
congregation is governed by the majority
only in temporal affairs.<note place='foot'>Miller v. English, 21 N. J. L., 317.</note> However, some
<pb n='167'/><anchor id='Pg167'/>
of the Protestant churches are so independent
that a vote of the congregation may
transfer them from one denomination to
another.<note place='foot'>Petot v. Tucker, 21 N. Y., 267.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_310'/><hi rend='bold'>310.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Contributions, Presbyterians, Methodists.</hi>&mdash;Where
certain persons by contributions
built a church and the title was taken
and held by the Presbyterians who permitted
all other denominations to hold services
therein, all of which was a condition of the
subscriptions for establishing the church,
when the Presbyterians sold out to the Methodists
and they held it for their own exclusive
use, those who contributed the money
had the right to resort to the court to enforce
their rights to worship in such church.<note place='foot'>Ludlam v. Higbee, 11 N. J. Eq., 342.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_311'/><hi rend='bold'>311.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>True Religion, Courts.</hi>&mdash;Ordinarily
the civil courts do not interfere where
there is a question as to which of two or
more parties is adhering to the true religious
teaching of the denomination. If no
question of property or civil rights arises,
the court will not interfere.<note place='foot'>Happy v. Morton, 33 Ill., 398.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_312'/><hi rend='bold'>312.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Heresy, Injunction.</hi>&mdash;Where a minister
did not preach the doctrine and the
entire system of Calvinistic theology received
and taught by that denomination, he
<pb n='168'/><anchor id='Pg168'/>
had no right to the pulpit of the church, and
the court granted an injunction against his
officiating therein.<note place='foot'>Sutor v. Spangler, 4 Phil., 331.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_313'/><hi rend='bold'>313.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bequest, Sects, Condition.</hi>&mdash;Where
a bequest was made to erect a place of worship
with the privilege for other sects to
worship therein and forever to be used as
such, the trustees in whom the title vested
had no authority to sell without the consent
of the grantor or his heirs; and the congregation
having sold the church property and
it having been thereafter used for a store,
the grantor's heirs had a right of entry for
condition broken.<note place='foot'>Scott v. Stipe, 12 Ind., 74.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_314'/><hi rend='bold'>314.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sexton, Undertaker, Authorities.</hi>&mdash;The
sexton who has charge of the church
property may lawfully remove from the
church an undertaker who, after being
warned to desist and leave, persists in conducting
the funeral in violation of rules prescribed
by the authorities of the church.<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. Dougherty, 107 Mass., 243.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='169'/><anchor id='Pg169'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXIII. Bequests, Devises, And Gifts</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_315'/><hi rend='bold'>315.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Statutes, Wills.</hi>&mdash;In some States a
religious society can not take under a will,
and a bequest of money to a church is void.<note place='foot'>In re Wright's estate, Myr. Prob., 213 Cal.</note>
In Connecticut any devise to a religious corporation
not expressly authorized by statute,
is void.<note place='foot'>Green v. Dennis, 6 Conn., 293; Ferguson v. Hedges, 1
Harr., 524.</note> In Maryland leave to devise land
to a religious society must be obtained from
the Legislature.<note place='foot'>Murphy v. Dallam, 1 Bland, 529.</note> In all the States it is
safest to consult and carefully follow the
statute in drawing a will.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_316'/><hi rend='bold'>316.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Masses, Alabama.</hi>&mdash;Formerly as a
rule of the English common law, it was held
that bequests and devises for the purpose of
having Masses said for the soul of the deceased,
were void as superstitious uses; but
under Article 1 of the Amendments to the
United States Constitution, and under similar
provisions in the constitutions of the
several States, the English rule does not
prevail in the United States. However, Alabama
<pb n='170'/><anchor id='Pg170'/>
adopted the English rule.<note place='foot'>Festorazzi v. St. Joseph's, 104 Ala., 327; 18 So., 394;
25 L. R. A., 360; Ex parte Schuler, 134 Mass., 436; Seiber's
Appeal, 9 At., Pa., 863; Holland v. Alcock, 108 N. Y.,
312; 16 N. E., 305.</note> By reading
the foot-note to the Alabama case, it will
be found that a majority of the States hold
that such bequests are lawful.<note place='foot'>Festorazzi v. St. Joseph's, 104 Ala., 327; 18 So., 394;
25 L. R. A., 360.</note> Even in
Alabama if the bequest had been to a clergyman
or a certain person and accompanied by
a request to say Masses, the court might
have allowed it.<note place='foot'>McHugh v. McCole, 97 Wis., 166; 72 N. W., 352.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_317'/><hi rend='bold'>317.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Name, Bequest, Corporation.</hi>&mdash;A
mistake in a name does not render a bequest
or a gift void if the person intended can be
identified.<note place='foot'>Wilson v. Perry, 29 W. Va., 169; 1 S. E., 302.</note> Also, a devise may be made to
a corporation not yet organized and when it
is organized the gift or devise will vest.
During the interim, it will remain in abeyance.<note place='foot'>Jones v. Habersham, 107 U. S., 174; 27 L. Ed., 401.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_318'/><hi rend='bold'>318.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Clergyman, Undue Influence.</hi>&mdash;A
clergyman who is a grantee in a deed from a
parishioner, although deriving no benefit
therefrom, has the burden of showing good
faith in the transaction as the law presumes
that he is guilty of undue influence. This
presumption is further strengthened by
proof of the enfeebled condition of the
<pb n='171'/><anchor id='Pg171'/>
grantor by age and illness and his susceptibleness
to influence. Where the property
conveyed in trust for the parish was greatly
in excess of its needs, the deed was set
aside.<note place='foot'>Good v. Zook, 116 Ia., 582; 88 N. W., 376.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_319'/><hi rend='bold'>319.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Contest, Secession.</hi>&mdash;In case of a
devise to a church which is claimed by two
societies, it is the duty of the court to decide
in favor of those who adhere to the ecclesiastical
government of the church which was
in operation at the time the trust was declared.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Sturgeon, 9 Pa. St., 321.</note>
However, to maintain such action
it must be brought by the proper parties.<note place='foot'>Scott v. Curle, 9 B. Mon., 17; Ante, 278, 290.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_320'/><hi rend='bold'>320.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bequests, Membership.</hi>&mdash;Bequests
left to individuals on condition that they
shall remain members of a certain church,
can be obtained only by complying with such
condition.<note place='foot'>In re Paulson's will, 127 Wis., 612; 107 N. W., 484.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_321'/><hi rend='bold'>321.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Conditions, Religious Tenets.</hi>&mdash;In
order to determine the conditions of a trust
the religious tenets of the donor may be
shown to aid in construction of ambiguous
provisions.<note place='foot'>Robertson v. Bullions, 11 N. Y., 243.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_322'/><hi rend='bold'>322.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Name, Uncertainty.</hi>&mdash;A bequest to
Georgetown University, in the District of
Columbia, which was incorporated under the
<pb n='172'/><anchor id='Pg172'/>
name of <q>The President and Directors of
Georgetown College,</q> is not void for uncertainty,
as the only institution of learning in
the District of Columbia is Georgetown
College.<note place='foot'>62 Cen. L. J., 167.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_323'/><hi rend='bold'>323.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Future Uses, Uncertainty.</hi>&mdash;A devise
to a foundling or eleemosynary institution,
whenever the Christians should create
one which the trustees approved, is valid.<note place='foot'>Ould v. Washington, 95 U. S., 303; 24 L. Ed., 450.</note>
And a devise to the <q>First Christian church
erected or to be erected in the village of Telfairville,
in Burke county, or to such persons
as may become trustees of the same,</q> is
good as a charitable bequest.<note place='foot'>Jones v. Habersham, 107 U. S., 174; 27 L. Ed., 401.</note> A bequest to
a priest to hold in trust and pay over to the
Sisters for the Poor, is valid.<note place='foot'>Darcy v. Kelley, 153 Mass., 433; 26 N. E., 1110.</note> A bequest
for the care of a tombstone is valid in some
States and not in others without a statutory
provision.<note place='foot'>Bronson v. Strouse, 57 Conn., 147; 17 At., 699.</note> A bequest to the bishop <q>to be
by him used for Roman Catholic charitable
institutions in his diocese,</q> sufficiently describes
the beneficiaries and is good.<note place='foot'>Tichenor v. Brewer's, 98 Ky., 349; 33 S. W., 86.</note> Also,
a bequest to Bishop England <q>in trust for
the Ladies of the Ursuline Order residing
in Charleston in the State of South Carolina,</q>
was held for <q>The Ladies of the Ursuline
<pb n='173'/><anchor id='Pg173'/>
Community of the city of Charleston.</q><note place='foot'>Banker v. Phelan, 4 Barb., 80.</note>
A bequest for Masses <q>to a Roman Catholic
priest that shall succeed me in this place,</q>
was held void for uncertainty.<note place='foot'>Bowers v. Fromm, Add., Pa., 362.</note> A bequest
in trust to a bishop by name to sell and give
the proceeds to a society named, is not a
devise to the society, but to the bishop in
trust.<note place='foot'>Germania v. Baltes, 113 Ill., 29.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_324'/><hi rend='bold'>324.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Education, Priesthood.</hi>&mdash;A devise
or bequest to a clergyman of property to be
used for the education of poor Catholic boys
for the priesthood, was sustained in court as
sufficiently definite for performance.<note place='foot'>McDonald v. Shaw, 98 S. W., 952.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_325'/><hi rend='bold'>325.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charitable Trust, Cy-Pres.</hi>&mdash;Equity
will not allow a charitable trust to fail for
want of a trustee, but will appoint one.<note place='foot'>Beaty v. Kurtz, 27 U. S., 566; 7 L. Ed., 521.</note>
The doctrine of <foreign rend='italic'>cy-pres</foreign> as applied to charitable
gifts and trusts, is not in force in Alabama,
Connecticut, Delaware, Indiana,
Maryland, Iowa, New York, North Carolina,
nor Wisconsin; but seems to prevail in
California, Illinois, Massachusetts, Missouri,
Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_326'/><hi rend='bold'>326.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Error, Ambiguity.</hi>&mdash;Great latitude
is allowed in charitable bequests, devises,
and gifts, in proving <foreign rend='italic'>aliunde</foreign> the beneficiary
<pb n='174'/><anchor id='Pg174'/>
intended where there is error in the name or
a latent ambiguity.<note place='foot'>Heiss v. Murphy, 40 Wis., 276; Fadness v. Braunburg,
73 Wis., 257; 41 N. W., 84.</note> The religion of the
testator will be considered in proving intention.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_327'/><hi rend='bold'>327.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Dissolution, Resulting Trust.</hi>&mdash;On
dissolution of a religious society, the money
collected or derived from the sale of property
goes back as a resulting trust to the
contributors.<note place='foot'>Coe v. Washington, 149 Mass., 543; 21 N. E., 966.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_328'/><hi rend='bold'>328.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charity, Institutions.</hi>&mdash;To determine
what is a charitable trust, devise, or
gift, it is necessary to particularly bear in
mind the most comprehensive definition of
charity. Legacies for schools, churches,
libraries, cemeteries, the poor, hospitals, and
numerous other eleemosynary institutions,
have been sustained under charitable bequests
when they otherwise would have
failed.<note place='foot'>Clark v. Brown, 108 S. W., 421, Tex.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='175'/><anchor id='Pg175'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXIV. Taxation</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_329'/><hi rend='bold'>329.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Purposes, Exempt.</hi>&mdash;Only church
property that is actually used for church or
charitable purposes, is exempt from taxation.
Property held for its increase or profit
is not exempt.<note place='foot'>Parker v. Quinn, 23 Utah, 332; 64 Pac., 961.</note> Land bought for a church
on which no work on the church is yet begun,
is not exempt from taxation.<note place='foot'>All Saints v. Brookline, 59 N. E., 1003, Mass.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_330'/><hi rend='bold'>330.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Lot Isolated, Not Exempt.</hi>&mdash;A lot
isolated from the other property of the
church of a congregation, is not exempt because
the congregation intends to build a
church thereon in the future, and actually
did build a church thereon two years later.<note place='foot'>Green v. Outagamie, 76 Wis., 587; 45 N. W., 536.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_331'/><hi rend='bold'>331.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bishop's Residence, Hospital.</hi>&mdash;Real
property the title to which is in the
archbishop in fee in accordance with the
discipline of the Catholic Church, is not
owned by a religious association so as to
exempt it from taxation. The records do
not show a trust for the diocese nor any
other beneficiary. A court will not take
<pb n='176'/><anchor id='Pg176'/>
judicial notice of the laws of the Catholic
Church.<note place='foot'>Katzer v. City, 104 Wis., 16; 80 N. W., 41.</note> But property used as a hospital
to care for the sick and wounded of all races
and religions indiscriminately, with or without
pay according to the ability of the
patient, is a benevolent institution engaged
in a work of charity, and comes under the
law of tax exemption.<note place='foot'>St. Joseph Hospital v. Ashland, 96 Wis., 636; 72 N.
W., 43.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_332'/><hi rend='bold'>332.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Parsonage, Rented.</hi>&mdash;A parsonage
owned by a congregation and used only as a
residence for the clergyman is not exempt
because of some part of it being also used
for alleged religious services, to-wit: morning
prayers of the children before school, a
sewing society, and a meeting place for Sunday-school
teachers.<note place='foot'>Ramsey v. Church, 45 Minn., 229; 47 N. W., 783.</note> However, a house and
lot rented and kept by the minister was exempt
from taxation.<note place='foot'>Gray v. Lafayette, 65 Wis., 567; 27 N. W., 311.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_333'/><hi rend='bold'>333.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Masonic Order, Charity, Elks.</hi>&mdash;A
charity which is confined exclusively to the
members of the Masonic Order and their
families or to the widows and children of
deceased members or those who are directly
or indirectly connected with the society, is
not purely a public charity within the provisions
of the constitution relating to the
<pb n='177'/><anchor id='Pg177'/>
exemption of institutions of purely public
charity from taxation.<note place='foot'>Newport v. Masonic, 108 Ky., 333; 56 S. W., 405; 49
L. R. A., 252.</note> And property held
by the Elks for entertainment and to promote
social intercourse was held not exempt.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. City, 122 Wis., 452; 100 N. W., 837.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_334'/><hi rend='bold'>334.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Supporting Church, Mississippi.</hi>&mdash;In
the early ages of the States several of
them had laws for taxing all the property
in parishes laid out by the State for the
support of Protestant churches. Gradually
these laws were eliminated and at the present
time there is probably no State excepting
Mississippi that uses money for the support
of a church. Maine changed her laws in
1821, and other States followed from time
to time.<note place='foot'>Dahl v. Kimball, 6 Me., 171.</note> While those taxes were collected,
no land within the parish was exempt in
some States and in others the property of a
non-resident was exempt.<note place='foot'>Turner v. Inhabitants, 16 Mass., 208; Goodell Mfg. Co.
v. Trask, 28 Mass., 514.</note> In New Hampshire
and Pennsylvania, a person could not
be compelled to pay the taxes to a denomination
of which he was not a member.<note place='foot'>Muzzy v. Wilkins, Smith, 1; Ebau v. Hendell, 5 Watts,
43; 30 Am. Dec., 291.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_335'/><hi rend='bold'>335.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Appropriations, Contracts, Rent.</hi>&mdash;Under
the constitution of the United States,
<pb n='178'/><anchor id='Pg178'/>
Congress can not make appropriations nor
give aid to any denomination. Also, similar
provisions are in many of the constitutions
of the States. However, many cases arise
out of contracts, which border upon these
various rules, and in some States the constitutional
provision of the State is such that
the State Legislature may legislate concerning
religions and give certain aid and support
thereto. Paying rent to a congregation
for a school-room is not an appropriation or
aid to a church contrary to the constitution.<note place='foot'>Miller v. Board, 19 Ill. App., 48; Municipality of Ponce
v. R. C. A. Ch., 28 Sup. Ct. R., 737; Reuben Quick-Bear
v. Leupp, 28 Sup. Ct. Repr., 690; Dorner v. Dist., 118 N.
W., 353.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='179'/><anchor id='Pg179'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXV. Eleemosynary Institutions</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_336'/><hi rend='bold'>336.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Poor, Institutions, Negligence.</hi>&mdash;As
hospitals, homes for the poor, and other
eleemosynary institutions are supported by
money given to charity, it would be a diversion
of the trust funds if such institutions
could be compelled to pay damages for negligence
causing personal injury or death.
The general rule is that the person causing
the injury may be liable, but not the institution.<note place='foot'>53 Cen. L. J., 224.</note>
However, a charitable institution has
been held liable for negligence of its manager
to notify a nurse of the contagious
nature of a case assigned to her.<note place='foot'>Hewitt v. Woman's, 73 N. H., 556; 64 At., 190.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_337'/><hi rend='bold'>337.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Surgeon, Gratuitous Services.</hi>&mdash;A
charitable medical institution is not liable for
the negligence of its surgeon in operating
upon a patient gratuitously where such institution
exercises due care in employing a
surgeon deemed competent. The fact that
besides such gratuitous services, medicine is
taught therein for tuition fees and patients
who are able to pay are charged a small fee
<pb n='180'/><anchor id='Pg180'/>
for room, board, nursing, etc., but no fee
from the patient to the doctor, does not
change it from a charitable institution.<note place='foot'>Collins v. New York, 69 N. Y. Supp., 106.</note>
However, a hospital that is an adjunct to
a medical school is liable.<note place='foot'>Louisville v. Hammock, 106 S. W., Ky., 219; 14 L. R.
A., N. S., 784.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_338'/><hi rend='bold'>338.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charitable Institution.</hi>&mdash;An institution
that limits its benefactions to the
members of a particular denomination is,
in the absence of a statute to the contrary,
a charitable institution.<note place='foot'>Indianapolis v. Grant, 25 Ind., 518.</note> This rule has exceptions.<note place='foot'>Newport v. Masonic, 108 Ky., 333; 56 S. W., 405; 49
L. R. A., 252.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_339'/><hi rend='bold'>339.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charter, Real Estate.</hi>&mdash;The trustees
of a religious, literary, or other benevolent
society, can not, irrespective of the powers
granted by its charter, purchase and hold
real estate under trusts of their own creation
which will protect their property from creditors.<note place='foot'>McGee v. German, 13 N. J. Eq., 77.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_340'/><hi rend='bold'>340.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Mortmain, Title, Trust.</hi>&mdash;The
statute of mortmain was never in force in
Pennsylvania, so a religious corporation can
hold the legal title to land in trust for the
heir-at-law of a testator who has devised it
to the corporation in trust for uses that
<pb n='181'/><anchor id='Pg181'/>
were void under the English law.<note place='foot'>Miller v. Lerch, Wall. Jr., Pa., 210.</note> The only
States that have statutes of mortmain are
Mississippi and North Carolina. Yet in
those States the statutes are somewhat different
from the law of England.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_341'/><hi rend='bold'>341.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Public Institutions, Support.</hi>&mdash;Benevolent
and charitable institutions under
a church are not public institutions, and
moneys can not be appropriated for their
support.<note place='foot'>St. Mary's Industrial School for Boys v. Brown, 45
Md., 310.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_342'/><hi rend='bold'>342.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Nuns, Vows, Property.</hi>&mdash;When
joining a society of nuns, one of the vows
taken was that all property should be held
in common and whatever property was received
after taking the vows should belong
to the society. A person who left the order
was not concluded from making claim for
her property.<note place='foot'>White v. Price, 108 N. Y., 661; 15 N. E., 427.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='182'/><anchor id='Pg182'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXVI. Schools</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_343'/><hi rend='bold'>343.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Parent, Education, State, Parochial
Schools.</hi>&mdash;The right of the parent to use
judgment as to the proper necessaries of his
child, including board, lodging, and education,
is generally conceded. However, there
must be no abuse of these parental rights, as
the child also has rights that even a parent
can not infringe. Therefore, the State may
require a reasonable opportunity for the education
of every child; and if the parent can
not give it on account of his poverty, it is in
the power of the State to take his child in
charge and furnish him an education. The
right of the State to make laws requiring a
parent to send his child to school between
certain ages, as from four to twenty-one
years, is well settled. The question of the
parent's being obliged to send his child to
the public schools or being forbidden to send
his child to a private or parochial school, is
not settled in some States; but it is being
settled in favor of the parent. The Kentucky
constitution contains this provision:
<q>... nor shall any man be compelled to
<pb n='183'/><anchor id='Pg183'/>
send his child to any school to which he may
be conscientiously opposed.</q><note place='foot'>Sec. 5, Ky. Constitution; Contra: N. H. Constitution,
art. 6.</note> The right of
the State to supervise or inspect private and
parochial schools under the police power of
the State can not be questioned.<note place='foot'>Donahue v. Richards, 38 Me., 376; State v. Baily, 157
Ind., 324; 61 N. E., 730; 54 Cen. L. J., 142.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_344'/><hi rend='bold'>344.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Orphan Asylums, School Moneys.</hi>&mdash;In
1850 the New York Legislature enacted
a law as follows: <q>The schools of the several
incorporated orphan asylums within the
State other than those in the city of New
York, shall participate in the distribution
of the school moneys in the same manner
and to the same extent in proportion to the
number of children educated therein, as the
common schools in their respective cities and
districts.</q> The court ruled that moneys devoted
by the constitution to the State for the
support of common schools could not be distributed
under the act, for the reason that
such asylums are not public schools; but
moneys from other sources might be paid
for the education of such orphan children
in proportion to their number to those educated
in the common schools of their respective
cities and districts.<note place='foot'>St. Patrick's v. Rochester, 34 How. Pr., 227.</note> The schools
kept by the Roman Catholic Orphan Asylum
<pb n='184'/><anchor id='Pg184'/>
Society of the city of Brooklyn, are not
common schools within the meaning of the
constitution, and a provision of law that
such schools should share in the distribution
of school moneys raised by the State was
void.<note place='foot'>People v. Board, 13 Barb., N. Y., 400.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_345'/><hi rend='bold'>345.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Contract, Direct Payment, Lease.</hi>&mdash;No
school of any denomination or sect is
entitled to public moneys for its support,
either by contract for the education of students
therein or by direct payment from the
government.<note place='foot'>Synod v. State, 2 S. Dak., 366; 50 N. W., 632; 14 L.
R. A., 418.</note> A school conducted by the
Catholic Church in which religious instruction
is given to Catholic children is a sectarian
institution within the constitutional
provision against using public funds for
sectarian purposes; but public school money
expended for such a school conducted by
this school district could not be recovered
by suit against the school officers.<note place='foot'>State v. Hallock, 16 Nev., 373; Dorner v. School Dist.,
118 N. W., Wis., 353 (Nov. 27, 1908).</note> Also,
a school maintained as a charity under direction
of trustees elected by the town where
they must be of a certain religion, is not
entitled to public moneys.<note place='foot'>Jenkins v. Andover, 103 Mass., 94.</note> But the lease of
a part of a parochial school building or the
basement of a church for public school purposed
<pb n='185'/><anchor id='Pg185'/>
does not violate the law.<note place='foot'>Millard v. Board, 121 Ill., 297; 10 N. E., 669; Dorner v.
School Dist., 118 N. W., Wis., 353.</note> In the
States of Maine, Iowa, Massachusetts, Illinois,
Ohio, Kansas, and Texas, the reading
of the King James Bible and the singing of
hymns and saying prayers have been held
not sectarian.<note place='foot'>Church v. Bullock, 100 S. W., Tex., 1025; Donahue v.
Richards, 38 Me., 379; 56 C. L. J., 81.</note> But in Wisconsin, the court
ruled the other way.<note place='foot'>State v. Board, 76 Wis., 177; 44 N. W., 967; 7 L. R. A.,
330; 53 Am. R., 282; 14 L. R. A., 419; Dorner v. School
Dist., 118 N. W., Wis., 353 (Nov. 27, 1908).</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_346'/>
<hi rend='bold'>346.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Teacher, Lord's Prayer, Exercise.</hi>&mdash;<q>A
public school teacher, who, for the
purpose of quieting the pupils and preparing
them for their regular studies, repeats the
Lord's Prayer and the Twenty-second
Psalm as a morning exercise, without comment
or remark, in which none of the pupils
are required to participate, is not conducting
a form of religious worship or giving
sectarian or religious instruction.</q><note place='foot'>Billard v. Board, 69 Kan., 53; 76 Pac., 422; 66 L. R.
A., 166.</note> Substantially
the same rule applies in Pennsylvania.<note place='foot'>Stevenson v. Hanyon, 7 Pa. Co. Ct., 585; State v.
Board, 76 Wis., 177; 44 N. W., 967; 7 L. R. A., 330; State
v. Scheve, 65 Neb., 853; 91 N. W., 846; 59 L. R. A., 927.</note>
However, similar religious exercises
conducted by Catholic teachers have
<pb n='186'/><anchor id='Pg186'/>
generally been held sectarian and not permissible
in public schools.<note place='foot'>Dorner v. School District, 118 N. W., Wis., 353 (Nov.
27, 1908); County v. Industrial School, 125 Ill., 540; 18
N. E., 183; 1 L. R. A., 437; 8 Am. St. Rep., 386; O'Connor
v. Hendrick, 184 N. Y., 421; 77 N. E., 612.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_347'/><hi rend='bold'>347.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Ohio, Directors, Bible.</hi>&mdash;The constitution
of the State of Ohio does not
enjoin nor require religious instruction or
the reading of religious books in the public
schools. The board of directors of a district
has charge of the instruction and books
to be used therein, and their official discretion
will not be interfered with. Therefore,
they were authorized to have the Bible read
at the opening of the school.<note place='foot'>Board v. Minor, 23 Ohio, 250; Campanas v. Calderhead,
17 Mont., 548; 44 Pac., 83; 36 L. R. A., 277.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_348'/><hi rend='bold'>348.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Public School, Bible, Prayer.</hi>&mdash;The
committee having control of a public school
may make a rule requiring the school to be
opened by reading from the Bible and
prayer every morning, and that each child
shall bow the head during such prayers;
that any scholar shall be excused from bowing
the head whose parents request it; and
when any scholar refuses to obey such rule
and his parents refuse to request that he
shall be excused, the committee may exclude
such scholar from the school.<note place='foot'>Spiller v. Woburn, 12 Allen, Mass., 127.</note>
</p>

<pb n='187'/><anchor id='Pg187'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_349'/><hi rend='bold'>349.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Text-Books, State.</hi>&mdash;The State has
the power to grant authority to the State
Board of Education to select and prescribe
text-books to be used in the public schools
of the State.<note place='foot'>School Commissioners v. State Board, 26 Md., 505.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_350'/><hi rend='bold'>350.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bible, Conscience, Constitution.</hi>&mdash;The
parent of a child expelled from the
public school can not maintain an action
against the school committee by whose orders
it was done. In the same case it was
held that a rule requiring every scholar to
read a particular version of the Bible,
though it may be against the conscience of
some to do so, does not violate the letter or
spirit of the constitution.<note place='foot'>Donahue v. Richards, 38 Me., 379; 56 Cen. L. J., 81.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_351'/><hi rend='bold'>351.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Schoolhouse, Sunday-School Purposes.</hi>&mdash;The
inhabitants of a school district
have no right to use the schoolhouse for religious
meeting on Sunday against the objection
of any taxpayer in the district, notwithstanding
that the officers of the district
granted such right. A taxpayer may obtain
an injunction against such use, although the
injury to him be very slight, as he has no
other remedy.<note place='foot'>Scofield v. State, 27 Conn., 499.</note> A district school board can
not authorize the use of the schoolhouse for
any other than school purposes.<note place='foot'>School v. Arnold, 21 Wis., 657.</note>
</p>

<pb n='188'/><anchor id='Pg188'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_352'/><hi rend='bold'>352.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Child, Immoral Character.</hi>&mdash;The
school committee in order to maintain purity
and discipline, may exclude therefrom a
child whom they deem to be of licentious
or immoral character, although such character
is not manifested in acts of licentiousness
or immorality within the school.<note place='foot'>Sherman v. Charleston, 8 Cushing, Mass., 160; State v.
Board, 116 N. W., 232; 67 Cen. L. J., 241.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_353'/><hi rend='bold'>353.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Parents, Studies, Teacher.</hi>&mdash;The
requirement of a teacher that a scholar in
grammar shall write English composition is
a reasonable one, and refusal to comply
therewith in the absence of a request from
his parents that he be excused therefrom,
will justify the expulsion of a scholar from
school.<note place='foot'>Guernsey v. Pitkin, 32 Vt., 224.</note> But when a parent selects certain
studies that the law provides to be taught
for his child to study, the teacher has no
right to insist that the child shall take some
other study and inflict punishment to enforce
obedience.<note place='foot'>Wood v. Morrow, 35 Wis., 59.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_354'/><hi rend='bold'>354.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Chastisement, Cruel.</hi>&mdash;The chastisement
of a scholar by the schoolmaster
must not be excessive or cruel, but it should
be reasonably proportioned to the offense
and within the bounds of moderation.<note place='foot'>Anderson v. State, 3 Head, Tenn., 455.</note>
</p>

<pb n='189'/><anchor id='Pg189'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_355'/><hi rend='bold'>355.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Schoolmaster, Authority.</hi>&mdash;Although
a schoolmaster has in general no
right to punish a pupil for misconduct after
the dismissal of the school for the day and
the return of the pupil to his home, yet he
may on the pupil's return to school punish
him for any misbehavior, though committed
out of school, which has a direct and immediate
tendency to injure the school and to
subvert the master's authority. The fact
that the master acted in good faith will not
excuse him from damages for the punishment
of a scholar where the punishment is
clearly excessive and unnecessary. However,
where there is a reasonable doubt the
master should have the benefit of it.<note place='foot'>Lander v. Seaver, 32 Vt., 114.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_356'/><hi rend='bold'>356.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Force, Assistance.</hi>&mdash;And where a
scholar in school hours places himself in the
desk of the instructor and refuses to leave it
on the request of the master, the master may
immediately use such force and call to his
assistance such aid from another person as
may be necessary to remove the scholar.
The same rule would apply to any one who
is not a scholar and intrudes upon the
school.<note place='foot'>Stevens v. Fassett, 27 Me., 266.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_357'/><hi rend='bold'>357.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>White, Unmarried.</hi>&mdash;Before the
adoption of the fourteenth amendment it
<pb n='190'/><anchor id='Pg190'/>
was necessary in most States that in addition
to the child being under twenty-one
years of age, he must be of white blood and
unmarried.<note place='foot'>Draper v. Cambridge, 20 Ind., 268.</note> In Ohio, negroes, Indians,
and children of less than half white blood,
were not entitled to the benefit of the school
fund; and even where this would entirely
exclude from school children not sufficient
to form a district, still it was held that
such children could not attend the white
school.<note place='foot'>Lane v. Baker, 12 Ohio St., 237; State v. City, 19 Ohio,
178; Van Camp v. Board, 9 Ohio St., 406.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_358'/><hi rend='bold'>358.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Facilities, the Constitution.</hi>&mdash;So
long as abundant facilities are given for the
education of all the children of a district, it
is not a violation of the constitution of the
United States to keep negro and white
people separated. The same rule applies to
courts.<note place='foot'>Ex parte Plessy, 45 La. Ann., 80; 11 So., 948; 16 Sup.
Ct. R., 1138; 163 U. S., 537; 41 L. Ed., 256; 18 L. R. A.,
639.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_359'/><hi rend='bold'>359.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Residents, Public Schools.</hi>&mdash;Children
in a German Protestant orphan asylum
are not <q>children, wards, or apprentices
of actual residents</q> in the district of the
asylum, and therefore are not entitled to
enter the public schools of the district.<note place='foot'>State v. School Directors, 10 Ohio St., 448.</note>
</p>

<pb n='191'/><anchor id='Pg191'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_360'/><hi rend='bold'>360.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Board, Majority.</hi>&mdash;Two of the
three members of a school board have no
authority to act by themselves, and their individual
agreement to dismiss a teacher is
void. A school board can only act at a duly
called meeting of the board, and then the
majority vote duly taken decides.<note place='foot'>Jackson v. Hampden, 16 Me., 184.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='192'/><anchor id='Pg192'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXVII. Parent And Child</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_361'/><hi rend='bold'>361.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Custody, Maternal Relatives, Father.</hi>&mdash;A
parent is entitled to the care and custody
of his child if he is competent to transact
his own business and not otherwise
unsuitable. And the mere fact that the
maternal relatives who have had the care of
the child from its birth have become attached
to it and desire to continue to care
for it and are able to secure it better advantages
than its parent, does not render
the parent unsuitable to have its care and
custody within the meaning of the statute.
Also, the want of a sympathetic nature or
cold reserve in a parent or the fact that he
is away on business a great deal of the time,
is not sufficient to render him unsuitable.
But the right of the father may be lost or
forfeited by his ill-conduct, gross ill-treatment,
cruelty, or abandonment, or when his
conduct and life are such as are injurious to
the morals and interest of his child. When
the father dies or forfeits his right for
reasons already given, the mother, if alive,
succeeds to all those rights, subject, however,
<pb n='193'/><anchor id='Pg193'/>
to the same conditions as the father.
And in the case of a child of tender years,
the good of the child has to be regarded as
the predominant consideration.<note place='foot'>Markwell v. Pereles, 95 Wis., 406 and 424; 69 N. W.,
798 and 984.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_362'/><hi rend='bold'>362.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Mother, Illegitimate, Father.</hi>&mdash;The
mother has a right to the care and custody
of her illegitimate child to the same extent
that a parent has to his legitimate child.<note place='foot'>Perry v. State, 113 Ga., 936; 39 S. E., 315.</note>
The putative father on the mother's death
succeeds to the mother's rights as against
the maternal relatives and may secure the
custody of the child by <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>habeas corpus</foreign>. This
rule is different from the one that prevailed
in the Roman law.<note place='foot'>Aycock v. Harrington, 84 Miss., 204; 36 So., 245; 65
L. R. A., 689.</note> However, when the
father has given bond for the care, support,
and education of an illegitimate child, his
right to the custody of the child may be
superior.<note place='foot'>Wright v. Bennett, 7 Ill., 587.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_363'/><hi rend='bold'>363.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Legitimatized.</hi>&mdash;And when under a
statute a child is legitimatized by acknowledgment
or subsequent marriage, the father
has the better right to its custody.<note place='foot'>Graham v. Bennett, 2 Cal., 503.</note> Usually
there are many provisions in the statutes of
the various States which substantially provide
<pb n='194'/><anchor id='Pg194'/>
for the rights, relative and otherwise,
of the parents and child in such cases.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_364'/><hi rend='bold'>364.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Punishment, Instrument, Murder.</hi>&mdash;A
parent or a person <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>in foro domestico</foreign>
or <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>in loco parentis</foreign> may give reasonable corrective
punishment with a fit instrument
to a child. But if a parent or master whips
a child so that it dies, he is guilty of manslaughter.
And if he uses lethal instruments
of punishment, he is guilty of murder.<note place='foot'>State v. Harris, 63 N. C., 1.</note>
Where a mother in anger threw a
poker at one child and hit and killed another
child, she was guilty of manslaughter.<note place='foot'>Rex. v. Canon, 7 Car. and P., 438.</note> The
punishment always becomes unlawful when
it is excessive, and drunkenness is no excuse.<note place='foot'>Rex. v. Griffen, 6 Cox. C. C., 402.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_365'/><hi rend='bold'>365.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Guardian, Religion, Courts.</hi>&mdash;In
England where a child was taken from the
testamentary guardian, who after the death
of the testator changed her religion from a
Protestant to a Catholic, it was held thereby
to be incompetent to continue as guardian.<note place='foot'>F. v. F., 1 Ch. (1902), 688.</note>
And in New York it was held that
where the father and mother were Catholics,
the guardian must endeavor to bring
the children up in that faith, as a guardian
will not be permitted to proselyte wards.<note place='foot'>In re Jacques, 82 N. Y. Sup., 986.</note>
<pb n='195'/><anchor id='Pg195'/>
But where a father who was a Catholic
allowed his child to be brought up by a maternal
aunt who was a Protestant, until the
child was fourteen years of age, the father
was not then entitled to the child's custody
for the purpose of having it instructed in
his own faith.<note place='foot'>In re Marshall, 33 N. Y. S., 104.</note> Courts will not interfere
with the religion of a child, but will allow
it to be brought up in the religion of its
parents; however, the best interests of the
child will be considered by the court without
conceding everything else to its religion.<note place='foot'>Kennedy v. Borah, 226 Ill., 243; 80 N. E., 767.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_366'/><hi rend='bold'>366.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Convent, Consent.</hi>&mdash;A daughter
under age who entered a convent to become
a nun without the consent of her mother,
may, on a writ of <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>habeas corpus</foreign> on the petition
of her mother, be required to leave the
convent and return to her home.<note place='foot'>Prieto v. Alphonso, 52 La. Ann., 631; 27 So., 153.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_367'/><hi rend='bold'>367.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Adoption, Rights, Duties.</hi>&mdash;Persons
of suitable age and circumstances to enter
the marital relations, may adopt a child.
When a married couple do not unite in
adopting a child, the consent of the non-adopting
spouse must be obtained. Also,
if the child's parents are living, their consent
is necessary unless they have lost their
paternal rights by abandonment or divorce.
<pb n='196'/><anchor id='Pg196'/>
The decree of adoption may be set aside for
good cause. The adopted parent has all the
rights over and duties toward the person of
the adopted child that a natural parent has,
including necessaries and religious training.
Usually the child inherits from the adopted
parents, but the adopted parents do not inherit
from the child. The statutes on adoption
are not the same in the several States,
but they cover the subject and must be
strictly followed.<note place='foot'>Clarkson v. Hatton, 143 Mo., 47; 44 S. W., 761; 65 Am.
St. R., 635; Matter of Johnson, 98 Cal., 531; 33 Pac., 260;
21 L. R. A., 380; Schlitz v. Roenitz, 86 Wis., 31; 56 N. W.,
194; 39 Am. St. R., 873; 21 L. R. A., 482; Markwell v.
Pereles, 95 Wis., 406; 69 N. W., 798; 67 Cen. L. J., 197.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_368'/><hi rend='bold'>368.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Infancy, Manumission, Marriage.</hi>&mdash;At
common law a person is an infant until
he is twenty-one years of age. Statutes
have modified that rule so that girls in some
States, and both girls and boys in others,
may contract marriage at an earlier age
without the parental consent. Generally,
an infant can not contract marriage without
the consent of the living parent or guardian
unless the child has been manumitted.
Where the boy was under the age of consent,
but he falsely told the priest that he
was of full age, his father had the marriage
annulled.<note place='foot'>Elliott v. Elliott, 77 Wis., 634; 46 N. W., 806; 57 L.
R. A., 155; 10 L. R. A., 568.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='197'/><anchor id='Pg197'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXVIII. Husband And Wife</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_369'/><hi rend='bold'>369.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Custody, Father.</hi>&mdash;A husband is entitled
to the custody of his wife against
her father, and where a son-in-law killed
his father-in-law in resisting the latter from
taking his daughter out of his (the son-in-law's)
house, the court held that it could not
be more than manslaughter; and if it were
necessary to kill to protect and maintain his
wife, the defendant was not guilty.<note place='foot'>Cole v. State, 75 S. W., 527; 45 Tex.; Cr. App., 225;
57 Cen. L. J., 341.</note> But
for good cause and without malice a parent
may advise his child to leave spouse.<note place='foot'>Mutter v. Senibbs, 79 N. E., 762, Mass.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_370'/><hi rend='bold'>370.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Corrective Authority, Services,
Domicile.</hi>&mdash;In America a husband gains no
right to corrective authority over his wife.
He can neither whip her nor use abusive
language to her. The same rule applies to
the wife, as they stand equal before the
law.<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. McAfee, 108 Mass., 458.</note> However, a husband is entitled to all
the services of his wife and a promise to pay
her extra for housework can not be
<pb n='198'/><anchor id='Pg198'/>
enforced.<note place='foot'>Tuttle v. Sutts, 96 Pac., 260.</note> Also, the husband has the right to
determine their place of domicile, and if the
wife unreasonably refuses to accompany her
husband, it is desertion, for which he may
obtain a divorce.<note place='foot'>Gleason v. Gleason, 4 Wis., 64; 14 Cyc, 846.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='199'/><anchor id='Pg199'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXIX. Indians</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_371'/><hi rend='bold'>371.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Indians, Citizens, Wards.</hi>&mdash;There
are a great number of statutory provisions
concerning Indians, both in the United
States statutes and in the statutes of the
several States, most of which are not of
great importance at the present time, as the
Indians are confined to a few States. When
they become citizens of the State in which
they reside, their status is the same as other
citizens; but so long as they remain in their
tribal relations they are taken care of as
wards of the Union.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_372'/><hi rend='bold'>372.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Schools, Cemeteries, Churches.</hi>&mdash;In
Oklahoma there are schools provided for
them. When a tribe cedes 160 acres to the
United States, it will give it a school for ten
years, and as much longer as it deems necessary.
Also, the Indians may have their own
cemeteries, schools, and churches, where the
Indians belong to the tribes, and they are
allowed lands therefor.<note place='foot'>32 St. At. L., 636 and 645.</note> In other States,
under the general law, the money of Indian
<pb n='200'/><anchor id='Pg200'/>
minors may be held in the treasury by the
Secretary of the Interior and paid to parents
and guardians in such sums and at such
times as the Secretary in his discretion may
determine.<note place='foot'>Chap. 1402, U. S. Laws of 1904.</note> There is no doubt that out of
those moneys, parents might pay for their
children at private schools.<note place='foot'>Quick-Bear v. Leupp, 28 Sup. Ct. Rep., 690 (1908).</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_373'/><hi rend='bold'>373.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Inspectors, Duties.</hi>&mdash;Under the
United States laws, inspectors are appointed
to visit Indian agencies and investigate all
matters concerning them and to examine all
contracts and accounts with the Indians and
make report thereon to the Secretary of the
Interior. The contracts for support of religion,
schools, and charitable institutions,
come under their duties.<note place='foot'>Sec. 2045, U. S. Statutes.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_374'/><hi rend='bold'>374.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>President, Trades.</hi>&mdash;The President
may cause Indians to be instructed in trades
and agriculture and have them taught the
elementary branches.<note place='foot'>Secs. 2071 and 2072, U. S. Statutes, and Chap. 188,
Laws of 1895.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_375'/><hi rend='bold'>375.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Commissioner, School, Rations,
Bible, Sectarian.</hi>&mdash;Another officer of great
importance is the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, who has most to do with the education
and schools of the Indians.<note place='foot'>26 St. At. L., 1014.</note> He may
require parents and guardians to send children
<pb n='201'/><anchor id='Pg201'/>
to school and withhold rations from
them for failure so to do. Also, there is
a fund under the control of the United
States as trustee, with which he may make
contracts for the education of Indian children
at private schools.<note place='foot'>Quick-Bear v. Leupp, 28 Sup. Ct. Repr., 690; 27 St. L.,
628 and 635.</note> However, the
jurisdiction of the commissioner over Indian
children does not extend to those off
the reservation.<note place='foot'>In re Lehah-puc-ka-chee, 98 Fed., 429.</note> Among other provisions
of the United States statutes is the following:
<q>The Christian Bible may be taught
in the native language of the Indians if in
the judgment of the persons in charge of
the school it may be deemed conducive to
the moral welfare and instruction of the
pupils in such schools.</q><note place='foot'>Chap. 503, Laws of 1888.</note> The Bible continues
its position among the Indians, but
appropriations for the Church are cut off
by the following provision: <q>It is hereby
declared to be the settled policy of the government
to hereafter make no appropriations
whatever for education in any sectarian
school.</q><note place='foot'>Chap. 3, Laws of 1897.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='202'/><anchor id='Pg202'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXX. Juvenile Courts</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_376'/><hi rend='bold'>376.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Reformatories, Object, Liberty.</hi>&mdash;During
the past few years juvenile courts
have been created for the purpose of committing
children to reformatories. The proceedings
are not criminal actions, but of an
equitable nature.<note place='foot'>61 Cen. L. J., 101, 289; 62 Cen. L. J., 215, 219.</note> However, as the object
is to deprive the child of its liberty, the
statute must be strictly construed and followed.<note place='foot'>McCann v. County, 6 Mont., 297.</note>
An infant can not waive a right.<note place='foot'>Hubbard v. Railway, 104 Wis., 160; 80 N. W., 454.</note>
If a child has been wrongfully committed
or is wrongfully detained, the proper remedy
for his discharge is a writ of <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>habeas
corpus</foreign>.<note place='foot'>Hochheimer on Custody of Infants, sec. 54; People v.
Turner, 55 Ill., 280; People v. Park, 41 N. Y., 21, 33.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='203'/><anchor id='Pg203'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXXI. Libel And Slander</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_377'/><hi rend='bold'>377.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Confidential, Tribunal, Malice.</hi>&mdash;The
rule is that all confidential statements
made to an officer or a tribunal of the church
concerning a member in the course of
church discipline and for the good of the
church, if not made with malice, are privileged,
and no action for libel or slander can
be maintained therefor.<note place='foot'>Kleizer v. Symes, 40 Ind., 562; Etchison v, Pergeson,
88 Ga., 620; 15 S. E., 680; Lucas v. Case, 72 (9 Bush) Ky.,
297; York v. Pease, 68 Mass., 288; Piper v. Woolman, 43
Neb., 280; 61 N. W., 588; O'Donahue v. McGovern, 23
Wendell, N. Y., 26; Servatius v. Pichel, 34 Wis., 292.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_378'/><hi rend='bold'>378.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Member, Officer, Councils.</hi>&mdash;But
slanderous or libelous statements made concerning
a person not a member of the church
or made concerning a member of the church
to another member who is not either an
officer or in the councils of the church, are
actionable and the person making or publishing
such statements is liable for damages.
Also, a person who repeats a libel or
slander may be liable as though he were the
originator.<note place='foot'>Combes v. Rose, 8 Blackf., 155; Servatius v. Pichel, 34
Wis., 292; Etchison v. Pergeson, 88 Ga., 620; 15 S. E., 680.</note>
</p>

<pb n='204'/><anchor id='Pg204'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_379'/><hi rend='bold'>379.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Official Communication, Privileged.</hi>&mdash;An
official communication between authorities
of the church or an authority and
a member of the church concerning a church
matter or church members and not made in
malice, is privileged.<note place='foot'>Gardener v. Anderson, Fed. Case, 5220; Rector v.
Smith, 11 Ia., 302.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_380'/><hi rend='bold'>380.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Priest, Pastoral Duties.</hi>&mdash;Where a
priest published from the altar that <q>Peter
Servatius is excommunicated, because he
laid hands on the priest to put him out of
the church, and he has no more benefit of
the prayers of the church. I will not pray
for him, and consider him a lost sheep and
withdraw all my pastoral blessings from
him. If he die, the burial rights of the
church will be denied him,</q> such remarks
were held defamatory, unless they were
spoken in the proper discharge of the priest's
clerical and pastoral duties and without
malice; and the case should have been submitted
on the evidence to a jury.<note place='foot'>See <q>Excommunication,</q> ante. Servatius v. Pichel, 34
Wis., 292; 11 L. R. A., 592.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_381'/><hi rend='bold'>381.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Church Record, Excommunication.</hi>&mdash;An
entry of a church record that <q>A report
raised and circulated by A. B. against
Brother C., stating that he made him pay
a note twice, and proved by A. B. as false,</q>
<pb n='205'/><anchor id='Pg205'/>
is libelous.<note place='foot'>Shelton v. Nause, 46 Ky., 128.</note> But an entry of excommunication
of a member made in the record and
shown to other members, is not libelous, the
latter being properly a part of the record
and the former extraneous.<note place='foot'>Fawcett v. Charles, 13 Wendell, 473.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_382'/><hi rend='bold'>382.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Will, Libel, Action.</hi>&mdash;The will of a
priest contained a statement that a relative
had received $300 from him for clothing,
maintenance, education, etc., and promised
to repay it, but paid no part of it. Then
testator bequeathed said $300 to two legatees
to collect for their own use. The relative
filed a petition asking the estate of the priest
to be held liable for a libel in the sum of
$50,000 and the court held that as the right
of action did not accrue until after the death
of the testator, there was a right of action
against the estate. As the case never got
beyond the probate court, its authority is
doubtful.<note place='foot'>54 Cen. L. J., 313.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_383'/><hi rend='bold'>383.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Language, Insane, Good Faith.</hi>&mdash;Unless
the language is used by the bishop
in the line of his duty, a statement that a
priest is irresponsible and insane, that he
was removed from his position of priest for
good reason, and that he has been guilty
of ecclesiastical disobedience, is slanderous
<pb n='206'/><anchor id='Pg206'/>
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>per se</foreign>. To make a communication between
a bishop and priest privileged it must have
been spoken in good faith and in belief that
the speaking of it came within the discharge
of the bishop's duty.<note place='foot'>Hellstern v. Katzer, 103 Wis., 391; 79 N. W., 429.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_384'/><hi rend='bold'>384.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Rector, Bigamy, Tobacco, Liquor.</hi>&mdash;In
a case where the rector of an Episcopal
church called upon a man charged with
bigamy and after a private conversation the
minister wrote a letter to the district attorney
on behalf of the prisoner, it was held
not privileged because it was not made in
confidence of the relation and was not kept
as a secret.<note place='foot'>Hills v. State, 61 Neb., 589; 85 N. W., 836.</note> A letter from a church member
of one congregation to the elders of
another congregation advising them of the
unfitness of a clergyman appointed to the
latter parish, and stating that he used tobacco
and liquor, that he was an untruthful
man, and that his family was no credit to
the community, was quasi-privileged; and
in the absence of proof that the charges were
false and malicious was not actionable.<note place='foot'>Konkle v. Haven, 140 Mich., 472; 103 N. W., 850.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_385'/><hi rend='bold'>385.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Newspapers, Criticisms, Priest.</hi>&mdash;A
newspaper has a right to publish criticisms
of the conduct of a priest in certain
services held in his church if no false statement
<pb n='207'/><anchor id='Pg207'/>
of facts is given, since such conduct is
a proper subject of discussion; and if such
article contains a statement that if certain
published accounts of the conduct of the
priest are true he acted in an improper manner,
etc., it is not libelous because such facts
are not true, as it is not an affirmation of the
truth thereof. Where the alleged libel was
published in a foreign language and the correctness
of the translation was disputed, it
was an error for the judge to instruct the
jury that if the translation introduced in evidence
was correct, the defendant was liable,
since plaintiff's right to recover should not
be made to depend on the absolute accuracy
of the translation.<note place='foot'>Klos v. Zahorik, 113 Ia., 161; 84 N. W., 1046.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_386'/><hi rend='bold'>386.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Clergyman, Discipline, Tribunals,
Testimony, Argument.</hi>&mdash;What a clergyman
says in the administration of the discipline
of the church or what is said in tribunals
to enforce discipline of the church, including
testimony and legitimate argument within
the scope of the case, if said in good faith
and without malice, is not actionable in the
civil courts.<note place='foot'>Libel and Slander, Townsend, secs. 233, 234; 25 Cyc,
390, 398, 411.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_387'/><hi rend='bold'>387.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Physical Discipline, Imprisonment,
Courts.</hi>&mdash;A clergyman who claims to have
been slandered by a parishioner can not administer
<pb n='208'/><anchor id='Pg208'/>
physical discipline nor put the
offender under restraint without leaving
himself liable for damages for assault and
battery or false imprisonment. If the clergyman
desires to treat the charge as a
church matter, he must go into the church
tribunal; otherwise, his proper course is to
bring an action for slander in the State
court.<note place='foot'>Grace v. Dempsey, 75 Wis., 313; 43 N. W., 1127; Grace
v. McArthur, 76 Wis., 641; 45 N. W., 518.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_388'/><hi rend='bold'>388.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sermon, False Statement, Crime.</hi>&mdash;A
clergyman may, by words used in a sermon,
slander a member of his congregation.
However, if he makes no false statement
and does not falsely or maliciously charge a
crime, what he says in the way of discipline
is privileged.<note place='foot'>25 Cyc, 390, 398.</note> The meaning of the words
<q>she is a dirty, vile woman,</q> can not be extended
by innuendo.<note place='foot'>62 Cen. L. J., 180.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_389'/><hi rend='bold'>389.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charges, Robbed, Hypocrite.</hi>&mdash;Charges
that a person has robbed a church
or has stolen from a church, are actionable.<note place='foot'>Libel and Slander, Townsend, p. 182 (notes).</note>
Also, charging a person with being a hypocrite
and using the cloak of religion for unworthy
purposes, is slanderous.<note place='foot'>Libel and Slander, Townsend, sec. 177; 25 Cyc, 398;
Edwards v. Bell, 8 Moore, 467.</note>
</p>

<pb n='209'/><anchor id='Pg209'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_390'/><hi rend='bold'>390.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Investigation, Probable Cause.</hi>&mdash;When
a member of a church consents to an
investigation on complaint before a person
who is not a member, if the complaint was
made on probable cause and not under the
pretence of exposing the defendant to scorn
or obloquy, he could not subsequently bring
an action for libel.<note place='foot'>Remington v. Congdon, 2 Pickering, 315; Bradley v.
Heath, 12 Pickering, 163.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_391'/><hi rend='bold'>391.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sacraments.</hi>&mdash;To publish of a person
that he has been deprived of the sacraments
of the church to which he belongs, is
libelous.<note place='foot'>McConckle v. Binns, 5 Binns, Pa., 340.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_392'/><hi rend='bold'>392.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Obituary, Tolling Bell.</hi>&mdash;To falsely
and maliciously publish an obituary notice of
a person living, is good ground for an action
for libel.<note place='foot'>MacBride v. Allis, 9 Rich., S. C., 313.</note> However, a complaint that a
church tolled its bell to announce the death
of a member, and did report him dead when
he was actually living, and that it was all
done for the purpose of annoying, harassing,
and vexing the person and his family,
was held not sufficient to support an action
for libel. The latter case is doubtful law.<note place='foot'>State v. Riggs, 22 Vt., 322.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_393'/><hi rend='bold'>393.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Newspaper, Profane Swearer.</hi>&mdash;A
newspaper in a notice of the death of a
church member has the right to state that
<pb n='210'/><anchor id='Pg210'/>
he was a profane swearer, if such was the
case.<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. Batchelder, Thach., Mass., Cr. Cas.,
191.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_394'/><hi rend='bold'>394.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Business or Property, Special Damages.</hi>&mdash;A
company incorporated for the purpose
of transacting business which would
include hospitals, schools, and industrial institutions,
may maintain an action for libel
the same as an individual for any words
affecting its business or property, if special
damages are alleged and proved.<note place='foot'>Shoe &amp; L. v. Thompson, 18 Abbot's Pr., N. Y., 413.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_395'/><hi rend='bold'>395.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Justification, Repeating.</hi>&mdash;It is no
justification that libelous matter had been
previously published by a third person, that
the name of such person was disclosed at the
time of repeating the libel, and that the person
who was repeating it believed all the
statements in the libel to be true.<note place='foot'>Sans v. Joerris, 14 Wis., 663.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='211'/><anchor id='Pg211'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXXII. Crimes</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_396'/><hi rend='bold'>396.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sins, Crimes, Discipline.</hi>&mdash;Crimes
are offenses against the civil law. The fact
that the church organization may try and
punish a member for sinning, or acquit
him, has nothing whatever to do with the
administration of the criminal law of the
State. Therefore, a member may be arrested
and tried for any offense before or
after the ecclesiastical tribunal has taken
action in the matter. But there are certain
crimes of a religious nature of which
the civil law assumes jurisdiction and punishes,
such as blasphemy,<note place='foot'>5 Cyc, 715; <q>Disorderly Conduct,</q> 14 Cyc, 467.</note> disturbing religious
meetings,<note place='foot'>14 Cyc, 540.</note> etc. Most of those laws are
statutory and depend wholly upon the
statute of the State where the crime is committed.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_397'/><hi rend='bold'>397.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Profane Language, Smoking, Disturbance.</hi>&mdash;Rude
behavior or profane language
if audible,<note place='foot'>Williams v. State, 83 Ala., 78; 3 So., 616.</note> smoking in the church or
during services,<note place='foot'>Hull v. State, 120 Ind., 153; 22 N. E., 117.</note> cracking and eating nuts
<pb n='212'/><anchor id='Pg212'/>
in church,<note place='foot'>Hunt v. State, 3 Tex., 116.</note> and fighting near the church so
as to disturb the services, are violations of
the law.<note place='foot'>State v. Kirby, 108 N. C., 772; 12 S. E., 1045.</note> A father's taking his child out of
the church with violence is a disturbance of
the meeting.<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. Sigman, 2 Clark, Pa., 36.</note> The disturbance of any member
of the congregation assembled for religious
worship is a violation of law.<note place='foot'>State v. Wright, 41 Ark., 410; Tanner v. State, 126 Ga.,
77; 54 S. E., 914.</note> A
sentence of $100 fine or one year's imprisonment
in the penitentiary, is not excessive or
cruel or unusual punishment on conviction
for disturbing a meeting.<note place='foot'>State v. Shepherd, 54 S. C., 178; 32 S. E., 146; 14 Cyc,
467, 540.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_398'/><hi rend='bold'>398.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sunday-School, Church.</hi>&mdash;An ordinary
Sunday-school where the Bible and religious
precepts are taught, is a church
within the law.<note place='foot'>Martin v. State, 65 Tenn., 234.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_399'/><hi rend='bold'>399.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Private School.</hi>&mdash;A person may be
punished under the statute for wilfully disturbing
a private school kept in a district
schoolhouse for instruction in the art of
writing.<note place='foot'>State v. Leighton, 35 Me., 195.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_400'/><hi rend='bold'>400.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Disturbing a Religious Meeting.</hi>&mdash;Under
a statute against disturbing a religious
meeting, it has been held that it should
<pb n='213'/><anchor id='Pg213'/>
define what disturbance is punishable.<note place='foot'>Marvin v. State, 19 Ind., 181.</note>
Also, mere want of attention or observance
of ceremonies, as standing or kneeling at
times, is not a violation of the law.<note place='foot'>Brown v. State, 46 Ala., 175.</note>
Neither is singing out of time, unless done
purposely,<note place='foot'>State v. Turkhaw, 69 N. C., 215.</note> nor performing a proper duty,
such as objecting to a silenced clergyman's
conducting the services.<note place='foot'>Richardson v. State, 5 Tex. App., 470.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_401'/><hi rend='bold'>401.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Common Law, Offense, Statutory
Law.</hi>&mdash;If there is no statutory provision, in
those States where the common law prevailed
before the admission of the State to
the Union the offense is punishable under the
common law.<note place='foot'>U. S. v. Brooks, 4 Cranch, C. C., 427.</note> And even in States where
there is a statutory law on the subject, a
person may be convicted at common law.<note place='foot'>People v. Crowley, 23 Hun., 412; McLane v. Mallock,
7 Ind., 525.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_402'/><hi rend='bold'>402.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Services, Violation, Time.</hi>&mdash;The
nature of the services and the discipline of
the denomination may determine whether
there is a violation of the law. Usually the
disturbance may occur at any place the congregation
is assembled, and at any time
when any part of the congregation is assembled
for religious services or business.<note place='foot'>Kinney v. State, 38 Ala., 224; State v. Lusk, 68 Ind.,
264; State v. Edwards, 32 Mo., 548; Tanner v. State, 126
Ga., 77; 54 S. E., 914.</note>
</p>

<pb n='214'/><anchor id='Pg214'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_403'/><hi rend='bold'>403.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Force, Priest, Preserve Order.</hi>&mdash;A
congregation may use sufficient force to remove
a disturber.<note place='foot'>MacLean v. Mallock, 7 Ind., 525.</note> A Catholic priest who
is the conductor of religious services and
master of ceremonies within his church has
the right to preserve order and to remove
by force, if necessary, any person who disturbs
his services.<note place='foot'>Wall v. Lee, 34 N. Y., 141.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_404'/><hi rend='bold'>404.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Interrupt, Liquors, Traffic.</hi>&mdash;There
are statutes in most of the States making it
a penal offense to interrupt or molest any
assembly or meeting of the people for religious
worship, or to sell intoxicating
liquors or other articles of traffic within a
certain distance of any camp-meeting or
other religious assembly, except at a place
of business regularly established prior to
such meeting or assembly and not with intent
of evading the provisions of the law.<note place='foot'>Meyer v. Baker, 120 Ill., 567; 12 N. E., 79; Commonwealth
v. Bearse, 132 Mass., 542; 42 Am. R., 450; West v.
State, 28 Tenn., 66; Cramer v. Marks, 64 Pa. St., 151.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_405'/><hi rend='bold'>405.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Theory, Blasphemy, Crime.</hi>&mdash;On
the theory that the United States is a Christian
nation, blasphemy is held to be a crime.<note place='foot'>5 Cyc, 713; Commonwealth v. Linn, 158 Pa., 22; 27
At., 843; 22 L. R. A., 353.</note>
Infidels naturally claim that it interferes
with their rights. However, there is no
more interference with the private rights of
<pb n='215'/><anchor id='Pg215'/>
the infidel than there is with the private
right of the Mormon who is forbidden to
violate the laws of the country by having a
plurality of wives; and it has been held that
any words importing imprecation for divine
vengeance may constitute profane cursing or
blasphemy.<note place='foot'>Gaines v. State, 75 Tenn., 410; Holcombe v. Cornish,
8 Conn., 375; Bodenheimer v. State, 60 Ark., 10; 28 S. W.,
507.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_406'/><hi rend='bold'>406.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Religion, God, Ridicule, Virgin.</hi>&mdash;Words
vilifying the Christian religion,<note place='foot'>State v. Chandler, 2 Har., Del., 553.</note> denying
God or the final judgment,<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. Kneeland, 37 Mass. (20 Pick), 206.</note> and profane
ridicule of the Holy Scriptures or of
Christ,<note place='foot'>People v. Ruggles, 8 Johnson, 225.</note> are usually punishable. Also, the
use of vile words applied to the Virgin Mary
is blasphemy.<note place='foot'>State v. Chandler, 2 Harr., Del., 553.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_407'/><hi rend='bold'>407.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Profanity, Proof, Excuse.</hi>&mdash;The
profanity must be in the hearing of some
person.<note place='foot'>State v. Pepper, 68 N. C., 259.</note> Every time a person profanely
swears by taking the name of God in vain is
a separate offense.<note place='foot'>Odell v. Garnett, 4 Blackf., Ind., 549.</note> The prisoner's confession
is sufficient proof; otherwise the prosecution
must show that the offense was committed
and some one heard the words.
</p>

<pb n='216'/><anchor id='Pg216'/>

<p>
Drunkenness is no excuse.<note place='foot'>People v. Porter, 2 Park, N. Y. Cr., 14.</note> Punishment by
fine or imprisonment is not in violation of
the constitution of the State or of the United
States.<note place='foot'>State v. Chandler, 2 Harr., Del., 553; Commonwealth
v. Kneeland, Thach., Mass. Cr. Cas., 346.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_408'/><hi rend='bold'>408.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sunday, Business, Fishing.</hi>&mdash;The
offenses against the Sunday law are so
numerous that it would be almost impossible
to review them within the limits of this work.
Of course, the carrying on of a man's ordinary
business is a violation of the Sabbath
laws. But in some States selling cigars,<note place='foot'>Miller v. State, 76 Ind., 310.</note>
a butcher selling meat,<note place='foot'>Petty v. State, 58 Ark., 1; 22 S. W., 654.</note> and even selling
soda water,<note place='foot'>Splane v. Commonwealth, 12 At., Pa., 431.</note> and ice cream,<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. Keiten, 1 Monag., 368.</note> as well as
fishing, traveling, driving, using a slot machine,<note place='foot'>Cain v. Daly, 74 S. C, 480; 55 S. E., 110.</note>
and almost every other imaginable
act excepting going to church, has at some
time and in some State been declared a violation
of the law, and a penalty imposed
therefor.
</p>

<p>
In California,<note place='foot'>Ex parte Jentisch, 112 Cal., 468; 44 Pac., 803.</note> Tennessee,<note place='foot'>State v. Lorey, 66 Tenn., 95.</note> and Washington,<note place='foot'>State v. Krech, 10 Wash., 166; 38 Pac., 1001.</note>
men may be shaved on Sunday. In
<pb n='217'/><anchor id='Pg217'/>
some other States it has been held that running
a barber shop on Sunday is a violation
of the law.<note place='foot'>People v. Havenor, 149 N. Y., 195; 43 N. E., 541; 3 L.
R. A., 689; State v. Dolan, 13 Idaho, 693; 92 Pac., 995;
14 L. R. A., N. S., 1259.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_409'/><hi rend='bold'>409.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charity, Necessity, Benefit, Pleasure.</hi>&mdash;However,
doing works of charity and
works of necessity usually are exempt.
What is a work of necessity is a question of
law. Charity includes whatever proceeds
from the sense of moral duty or a feeling
of kindness and humanity, and is intended
wholly for the purpose of the relief or comfort
of another, and not for one's benefit or
pleasure.<note place='foot'>Flag v. Inhabitants, 58 Mass., 243; Doyle v. Lynn, 118
Mass., 195.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_410'/><hi rend='bold'>410.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Contracts, Marriage, Notice.</hi>&mdash;The
common law made no distinction between
Sunday and any other day as to making contracts,
but it prohibited holding court. In
this country the statutory law invariably
prohibits any but works of necessity or charity
to be done on Sunday. But marriage settlements,<note place='foot'>Hayden v. Mitchell, 103 Ga., 431; 30 S. E., 287.</note>
publication of statutory notices
on Sunday,<note place='foot'>Roth v. Hacks, 68 Mo. App., 283.</note> and promises to marry, have
been held legal.<note place='foot'>Hofer v. Cowan, 55 Cen. L. J., 290.</note>
</p>

<pb n='218'/><anchor id='Pg218'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_411'/><hi rend='bold'>411.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Funeral, Physician, Subscriptions.</hi>&mdash;To
attend a funeral, to employ an undertaker,
or a physician, on Sunday, has been
tested in the courts, and finally decided to
be works of necessity or charity and not a
violation of the Sunday law. Also, subscriptions
made for church purposes and in
works of charity on Sunday have been held
legal and binding.<note place='foot'>Byrant v. Watson, 127 Ind., 42; 26 N. E., 687; Allen
v. Duffy, 43 Mich., 1; 4 N. W., 427; 11 L. R. A., 63; Dale
v. Knapp, 98 Pa., 389.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_412'/><hi rend='bold'>412.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Jews, Seventh-Day Observers.</hi>&mdash;In
several of the States it has been held that
Jews and Seventh-Day observers of the Sabbath
must obey the Sunday law.<note place='foot'>Society v. Commonwealth, 52 Pa., 125; Parker v. State,
84 Tenn., 476.</note> However,
in many States there is a statute expressly
exempting people who keep the seventh
day of the week; but still they sometimes
have a provision, unless <q>he shall wilfully
disturb thereby some other person or
some religious assembly on said day.</q>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_413'/><hi rend='bold'>413.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Societies, Secular Work.</hi>&mdash;Business
meetings of benevolent and church societies
for benevolent or church work may be held
on Sunday. Even the constitution of such
societies may be amended on Sunday. However,
secular work that does not come strictly
<pb n='219'/><anchor id='Pg219'/>
under the functions of such societies would
be unlawful.<note place='foot'>McCabe v. Father Matthews, 24 Hun., 149; People v.
Young, 67 Barb., 357.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_414'/><hi rend='bold'>414.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Sunday, Begins, Ends.</hi>&mdash;Usually
people believe they know what the word Sunday
means, when it begins, and when it
ends. Christianity usually recognizes the
time from midnight to midnight as Sunday,
and that is the usual time recognized
by law.<note place='foot'>Philadelphia v. Lehman, 56 Md., 209; Kroer v. People,
78 Ill., 294.</note> But the solar day only,<note place='foot'>Fox v. Abel, 2 Conn., 541.</note> or from
midnight to sunset,<note place='foot'>Bryant v. Inhabitants, 30 Me., 193; Tracy v. Jenks, 32
Mass., 465.</note> give us a variety which
may not be complete. Also, we have the
further anomaly of a note made at 2 o'clock
on Saturday night, being held valid.<note place='foot'>Carpenter v. Crane, 1 Root, Conn., 98.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_415'/><hi rend='bold'>415.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Religious Liberty, Law.</hi>&mdash;The constitutional
guarantee of religious liberty is
not violated by enforcing the Sunday law.<note place='foot'>Judefinde v. State, 78 Md., 510; 28 At., 405; 22 L. R.
A., 721, note.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_416'/><hi rend='bold'>416.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Necessaries, Doctor.</hi>&mdash;As a parent
or husband is obliged to furnish necessaries
for his children and wife, when medical
treatment becomes necessary, he is liable for
manslaughter for failure to do his duty, even
in case of religious disbelief in the efficacy
of medicine. Courts are not inclined to
<pb n='220'/><anchor id='Pg220'/>
make any distinction as to religious belief,
and the prevailing rule in this country is
that the parent is liable if he negligently
allows his child to die when it might have
been saved by the services of a doctor.<note place='foot'>55 Cen. L. J., 44; 56 Cen. L. J., 261; State v. Cheneworth,
163 Ind., 94; 71 N. E., 197; 59 Cen. L. J., 202.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_417'/><hi rend='bold'>417.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Christian Healer, Consent.</hi>&mdash;A
Christian healer can not be held liable except
under a State law. One who consents to
treatment has no action for damages unless
there is a failure to exercise the care and
skill of a Christian Scientist. This rule
might not apply to one incompetent to consent
to a contract.<note place='foot'>Speed v. Tomlinson, 73 N. H., 46; 59 At., 376; 68 L.
R. A., 432.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_418'/><hi rend='bold'>418.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Politics.</hi>&mdash;A minister who had been
expelled by his congregation for voting the
Democratic ticket, had some of the members
of the church arrested under the election
laws for intimidating a voter. The court
held that as he <q>suffered no pecuniary loss,
personal injury, or physical restraint,</q> no
crime was committed.<note place='foot'>State v. Rodgers, 128 N. C., 576; 38 S. E., 34.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_419'/><hi rend='bold'>419.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Mail, Obscene Language.</hi>&mdash;Under
the United States postal laws against sending
<q>obscene, lewd or lascivious</q> books or
papers through the mail, a person can not
be convicted without proof that the matter is
<pb n='221'/><anchor id='Pg221'/>
obscene, lewd, and lascivious, as the word
<q>or</q> should be construed to mean <q>and.</q>
Also, the court held that a newspaper article
on the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception
written in coarse and obscene language
that offended the religious sentiments of the
people, but had no tendency to induce sexual
immorality, did not render the newspaper
unmailable nor the publisher guilty under
the United States statutes. The court says:
<q>Those parts of the article most relied upon
to sustain the charge, though ostensibly a
discussion of a religious subject, are couched
in language not quite suitable for insertion
in a judicial opinion, however well adjusted
to such applause as might be expected from
taste of a certain degree of degradation.</q><note place='foot'>U. S. v. Moore, 104 Fed., 78.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_420'/><hi rend='bold'>420.</hi> <hi rend='italic'><q>Fair,</q> Chances, Gambling.</hi>&mdash;A
church <q>fair</q> at which chances are sold,
drawings had, or any game of chance permitted,
is illegal and may be punished as
gambling.<note place='foot'>Constant v. Rector, 4 Daly, 1.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='222'/><anchor id='Pg222'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXXIII. Cemeteries</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_421'/><hi rend='bold'>421.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Statutes, Land.</hi>&mdash;There are sufficient
statutory provisions on cemeteries to make a
large book, and the frequent changes made
in such laws render a full statement of the
law impossible. The statutes against locating
cemeteries near cities, dwellings, etc.,
should be carefully examined before buying
land therefor.<note place='foot'>Frederickson v. W. R. Cem. Ass., 133 Wis., 502; 113
N. W., 1023.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_422'/><hi rend='bold'>422.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>United States, Jurisdiction.</hi>&mdash;The
jurisdiction over the United States cemeteries
is in the State where the cemeteries
are located unless such jurisdiction has been
ceded to the United States.<note place='foot'>14 Op. Atty-Gen., 27; secs. 4780-4782, U. S. Statutes;
16 Op. Atty-Gen., 13.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_423'/><hi rend='bold'>423.</hi>. <hi rend='italic'>Tombstones, Soldiers</hi>.&mdash;The United
States will erect tombstones at the graves of
soldiers who served in the Civil War, in all
cemeteries where their graves are unmarked.
Wherever the United States has jurisdiction
over cemeteries, it has made it a criminal
offense punishable by fine or imprisonment
to deface a tombstone.<note place='foot'>20 St. at L., 281.</note>
</p>

<pb n='223'/><anchor id='Pg223'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_424'/><hi rend='bold'>424.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Indigent Soldiers, Tombstones.</hi>&mdash;Most
of the States have statutes providing
for the burial of indigent soldiers and for
putting tombstones at their graves. The
attention of relatives of deceased soldiers
should be called to it.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_425'/><hi rend='bold'>425.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>State Authority.</hi>&mdash;The State Legislature
has authority to control cemeteries or
delegate that authority to some one else,
and afterward to transfer it to a different
person.<note place='foot'>Sohier v. Trinity Ch., 109 Mass., 1; City v. Town, 82
Wis., 374; 52 N. W., 425.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_426'/><hi rend='bold'>426.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Maryland, Two Acres.</hi>&mdash;Although
the declaration of rights of the State of
Maryland restricted the sale of lands for a
cemetery for a church to two acres, the
Legislature has power to grant leave to a
cemetery association to take title to more land.
And where the trustees bought twelve acres
of land for a burial ground and a subsequent
act of the Legislature authorized the enlargement
of the cemetery not to exceed
twenty-five acres, the title to the excess of
the valid purchase was ratified and the title
vested in the trustees.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Manning, 72 Md., 116; 19 At., 599.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_427'/><hi rend='bold'>427.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Consent, Application.</hi>&mdash;Where a
statute provides that no cemetery shall be
laid out without first obtaining the consent
of the municipal authorities thereto, a written
<pb n='224'/><anchor id='Pg224'/>
communication signed by the officers of
an incorporated society is sufficient application;
and a motion granting consent adopted
by the city council is sufficient action on its
part to comply with the statute.<note place='foot'>Porch v. St. Bridget's, 81 Wis., 599; 51 N. W., 1007.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_428'/><hi rend='bold'>428.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charter, Ground, Members.</hi>&mdash;An
application for a charter to incorporate a
cemetery need not specifically locate the
ground.<note place='foot'>In re Highland, 4 Pa. Dist. Rep., 653.</note> The charter or the articles of incorporation,
or by-laws made under them,
generally determines who shall be members
of the corporation. And where every owner
of a lot signing the constitution and by-laws
becomes a member, the trustees can not vote
on the unsold lots.<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. Fisher, 7 Phil., 264; Bourland v.
Springdale, 158 Ill., 458; 42 N. E., 86.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_429'/><hi rend='bold'>429.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Police Power, Trespass, Burial.</hi>&mdash;Under
our laws the State, by reason of its
police power, has control over the cemeteries
within it. However, that power has generally
been very favorably exercised. Laws
both civil and criminal have been enacted
to protect cemeteries from invasion and trespass
and to protect tombstones from injury.<note place='foot'>City v. Watson, 56 N. J. L., 667; 24 L. R. A., 843; 49
Cen. L. J., 307.</note>
When authorized by the Legislature a city
may make a by-law prohibiting burial within
its limits, notwithstanding that the cemetery
<pb n='225'/><anchor id='Pg225'/>
has been constantly used for over one hundred
years.<note place='foot'>Coates v. City, 7 Cowan, N. Y., 585; Humphrey v.
Frost, 109 N. C., 132; 13 S. E., 793; City v. Austin, 87
Tex., 330; 28 S. W., 528; 47 Am. St. R., 114.</note> Also, the city has authority
to protect and regulate the use of a cemetery.<note place='foot'>Stockton v. City, 42 N. J. Eq., 531; 9 At., 203; First v.
Meyers, 5 Okla., 819; 50 Pac., 70; 38 L. R. A., 329.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_430'/><hi rend='bold'>430.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Dwelling, Limits.</hi>&mdash;Most of the
States provide that no cemetery shall be laid
out within a certain limit of a dwelling.
But after the cemetery is established a man
can not have it moved when he puts up a
dwelling within the limits or where he consented
to the cemetery at the time it was
established.<note place='foot'>Steams v. Manchester, 63 N. H., 390; Henry v. Trustees,
48 Ohio, 671; 30 N. E., 1122.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_431'/><hi rend='bold'>431.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Well, Pollution.</hi>&mdash;And where a man
had built a dwelling near a cemetery, it was
not good ground for him to prevent the enlargement
of the cemetery by showing that
it might destroy his well. The court questions
whether there is any legal ground for
complaint for the pollution of subterranean
waters when caused by the proper use without
negligence of the adjacent premises.<note place='foot'>Upjohn v. Board, 46 Mich., 542; 9 N. W., 845.</note>
Additional lands may be obtained under the
law of eminent domain by condemnation.<note place='foot'>Edwards v. Stonington, 20 Conn., 466.</note>
</p>

<pb n='226'/><anchor id='Pg226'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_432'/><hi rend='bold'>432.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Exempt, Execution, Mortgage.</hi>&mdash;The
statutes in most of the States exempt
the tombstones and lots in a cemetery from
sale on execution.<note place='foot'>Oakland v. People, 93 Tex., 569; 57 S. W., 27; 55 L.
R. A., 503.</note> Also, a cemetery lot
can not be sold under mortgage after bodies
have been buried therein, as any one may be
arrested for desecration of graves.<note place='foot'>Louisville v. Nevin, 73 Ky., 549; First v. Hazel, 63
Neb., 844; 89 N. W., 378.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_433'/><hi rend='bold'>433.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Public, Regulation.</hi>&mdash;The right to
bury in a public cemetery is a privilege or
license that is subject to municipal regulation,
and revocable whenever the public
necessity requires it.<note place='foot'>Page v. Simons, 63 N. H., 17.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_434'/><hi rend='bold'>434.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Nuisance, Public Health, Disease.</hi>&mdash;A
cemetery is not a nuisance <hi rend='italic'>per se</hi>, but
if it is proved that the burial of dead bodies
in a certain cemetery does injure the public
health and is a fruitful source of transmission
of disease, the State may prohibit such
burial at certain places within cities or adjacent
to dwellings. But unless authorized
by the Legislature a council has no right by
ordinance to provide that no one shall be
buried within half a mile of any habitation
or public thoroughfare.<note place='foot'>Wygant v. McLaughlin, 39 Or., 429; 64 Pac., 867; 54
L. R. A., 636; 53 Cen. L. J., 48.</note> And where the
<pb n='227'/><anchor id='Pg227'/>
Legislature authorized a city to remove the
bodies interred and allow streets through
the land, it had authority to do so.<note place='foot'>Trustees v. Manning, 72 Md., 116; 19 At., 599; Close
v. Glenwood, 107 U. S., 466; 2 Sup. Ct. R., 267; 27 L. Ed.,
408; Matter of Bd. of Street Opening, 133 N. Y., 329; 31
N. E., 102; 28 Am. St. R., 640; 16 L. R. A., 180.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_435'/><hi rend='bold'>435.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Devise, Easement, Rules.</hi>&mdash;The
general rule of law is that a man can not
devise away a cemetery lot in which members
of his family are buried. He owns only
a license or at the most an easement which
is subject to the rules of the cemetery association
and the police power of the State.
However, there are some exceptions.<note place='foot'>In re Waldron, 26 R. I., 84; 58 At., 453; 67 L. R. A.,
118; Wright v. Hollywood, 112 Ga., 884; 38 S. E., 94; 52
L. R. A., 621.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_436'/><hi rend='bold'>436.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Conditions.</hi>&mdash;A condition in a deed
that the lot can not be sold, assigned, or
transferred without consent of the cemetery
corporation, is as good and binding as in any
other conveyance of real estate.<note place='foot'>Perkins v. Mass., 138 Mass., 361.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_437'/><hi rend='bold'>437.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Inherits, Right.</hi>&mdash;Where a son inherits
from his father the right to burial in
a cemetery lot, he has the right to remove
and inter therein the bodies of his grandmother
and sister who had been buried elsewhere.<note place='foot'>Wright v. Hollywood, 112 Ga., 884; 38 S. E., 94.</note>
</p>

<pb n='228'/><anchor id='Pg228'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_438'/><hi rend='bold'>438.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Certificate.</hi>&mdash;A certificate was issued
for the burial of Dennis Coppers in the
following form:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Office of Calvary Cemetery,</q></l>
<l>New York, December 1, 1873.</l>
</lg>

<p>
RECEIVED from Mr. Dennis Coppers,
seventy-five dollars, being the amount of
purchase money of a plot of ground 8 feet
by 8 feet, in Calvary Cemetery.
</p>

<lg>
<l>D. BRENNAN,</l>
<l>Superintendent of Calvary Cemetery.</l>
</lg>

<p>
<q rend='post'>4 Graves, 5, 6, 7, 8, Plot D, Section 7,
Range 35.</q>
</p>
</quote>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_439'/><hi rend='bold'>439.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Freemason, Title, Right.</hi>&mdash;Prior to
1879, the mother, wife, and other relatives
of Coppers, who were Roman Catholics,
were buried in the lot covered by the deed
given in the last paragraph. Coppers, who
was a Freemason, died in August, 1879, and
his funeral services were held under the
auspices of the Masons from an Episcopal
church, as directed in his will. The rules
and doctrines of the Church forbid the
burial in consecrated ground of the body of
one who was not a Roman Catholic or who
was a member of the Masonic fraternity.
The Church authorities refused to allow
Coppers to be buried in the cemetery, and
application was made by his relatives for a
<pb n='229'/><anchor id='Pg229'/>
writ of mandamus to compel his interment
therein, they having deposited the necessary
money to pay all the expenses. The court
held that the certificate delivered to Coppers
was not a conveyance nor a grant and did
not vest title to the land in him, and that the
cemetery could not be compelled to execute
and deliver to him an absolute conveyance of
the lot. His only right under the certificate
was the use of the lot for burial purposes
subject to and in conformity with the established
rules and by-laws of the corporation
in so far as they were not in violation of
any law. It is the tacit understanding,
when a person applies for a burial lot in a
cemetery of the Catholic Church, that he is
either a Catholic and as such is eligible to
be buried therein, or that he applies in behalf
of those who are in communion with
the Church.<note place='foot'>People v. Trustees, 21 Hun., 184; McGuire v. St. Pat.
C. C., 3 N. Y. Sup., 781; Baltimore v. Manning, 72 Md.,
116; 19 At., 599.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_440'/><hi rend='bold'>440.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Lots, Fee.</hi>&mdash;If the cemetery association
sells 400 lots to one man and makes
a conveyance in fee thereof, it is bound
thereby.<note place='foot'>Palmer v. Cypress, 122 N. Y., 429; 25 N. E., 983.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_441'/><hi rend='bold'>441.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Deed, Privilege, Heirs and Assigns.</hi>&mdash;No
formal deed is necessary to confer exclusive
right to the use of a cemetery lot for
<pb n='230'/><anchor id='Pg230'/>
burial purposes.<note place='foot'>Conger v. Weyant, 55 Hun., 605.</note> And certificates of lots
issued by a corporation convey no title to
the land, as they are not in the form necessary
to constitute a conveyance of land.
Their only effect is to grant the privilege of
interment so long as the ground continues
to be used for the purposes of burial.<note place='foot'>Baltimore v. Manning, 72 Md., 116; 19 At., 599.</note> A
deed of a cemetery lot <q>to him, his heirs, and
assigns forever,</q> gives only an easement in
the freehold, and does not give title to the
soil, and is subject to changes made necessary
by altered circumstances.<note place='foot'>Went v. Methodist, 80 Hun., 266; Adams v. First, 148
Mich., 140; 111 N. W., 757; 11 L. R. A., N. S., 509.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_442'/><hi rend='bold'>442.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Access, Purposes.</hi>&mdash;Title to a cemetery
lot gives the right of access to it for
the usual purposes, including putting up
monuments.<note place='foot'>Lakin v. Ames, 64 Mass., 198.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_443'/><hi rend='bold'>443.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Monuments, Inscriptions, Drunkenness,
Non-Baptized, Strangers.</hi>&mdash;The
plaintiff obtained from the defendant a deed,
which, among other things, contained the
following conditions: <q>that such lot shall
not be transferred without the consent of
the trustees; shall be subject to the regulations
made, or to be made, in the care and
management of such cemetery by the trustees,
who shall also have the right to prevent
<pb n='231'/><anchor id='Pg231'/>
the erection of offensive and improper monuments
or inscriptions thereon, and shall retain
the right to enter any lot for the removal
of anything objectionable; that no remains
shall be deposited therein for hire;
and that persons dying in drunkenness, duel,
or by self-destruction, non-baptized, non-Catholic,
or otherwise opposed to the Catholic
Church, shall not be therein interred.</q>
The plaintiff had buried his father and one
of his children in the lot, and brought his
wife's remains there for burial. Upon the
arrival of the funeral, two small coffins of
strangers, one of which bore the name <q>John
McDonald,</q> which the grave-digger had
taken up, were at the side of the grave.
There was nothing to show how those bodies
came to be buried there. The plaintiff
brought suit for damages against the cemetery
association. The court held that the
cemetery association was liable and that the
defense that it was a public charitable organization
could not be sustained.<note place='foot'>Donnelly v. Boston, 146 Mass., 163; 15 N. E., 505.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_444'/><hi rend='bold'>444.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Use, Forfeited.</hi>&mdash;When a deed is
made of land for the use of a cemetery only,
it will be forfeited by using it for a school.<note place='foot'>Rawson v. School, 89 Mass., 299.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_445'/><hi rend='bold'>445.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>By-Laws, Member, Burial.</hi>&mdash;Where
a by-law of a church association provides
<pb n='232'/><anchor id='Pg232'/>
that any member who pays one dollar to
have his name entered in the record shall
be entitled to a burial lot, a member who
had paid one dollar to the committee of the
church before the adoption of such by-law
but had ceased to be a member of
the congregation, has no right to a burial
lot.<note place='foot'>St. Johns v. Haans, 31 Pa. St., 9.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_446'/><hi rend='bold'>446.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Adverse Possession.</hi>&mdash;If the original
title to a cemetery is defective, the title
may become good by adverse possession.<note place='foot'>Dangerfield v. Williams, 26 App., S. C., 508.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_447'/><hi rend='bold'>447.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Improvements.</hi>&mdash;The owner of a
lot, unless some rule of the cemetery association
or law of the State is to the contrary,
may improve it as he sees fit so long
as he does not injure the property rights of
another.<note place='foot'>Silverwood v. Latrobe, 68 Md., 620; 13 At., 161.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_448'/><hi rend='bold'>448.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trespass, Injunction.</hi>&mdash;An action
for damages <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>quara clausum fregit</foreign>, can be
maintained by a relative against any one
who trespasses upon a grave of a person
lawfully interred.<note place='foot'>Bessimer v. Jenkins, 111 Ala., 135; 18 So., 565; 66 Am.
St. R., 26.</note> Also, a relative may
enjoin by suit in equity, on behalf of himself
and others equally interested, interference
with graves in his cemetery lot.<note place='foot'>Davidson v. Reed, 111 Ill., 167; 53 Am. R., 613; Boyce
v. Kalbough, 47 Md., 334.</note>
</p>

<pb n='233'/><anchor id='Pg233'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_449'/><hi rend='bold'>449.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Roads, Alleys.</hi>&mdash;Most of the laws
relating to highways apply to cemetery
roads and alleys, excepting that when a
road or alley in a cemetery is vacated the
land reverts to the cemetery instead of becoming
parts of the adjoining lots.<note place='foot'>Burke v. Wall, 29 La. Ann., 38; Seymour v. Page, 33
Conn., 61; Perkins v. Mass., 138 Mass., 361.</note> In
most of the States a road can not be laid
out through or take a part of a cemetery.<note place='foot'>Hyde Park v. Oakwoods, 119 Ill., 141; 7 N. E., 627;
Matter of Bd. of Street Opening, 133 N.Y., 329; 31 N. E.,
102; 28 Am. St. E., 640 L. R. A., 180.</note>
But a public highway may be established
through a cemetery by user, the same as
over other lands.<note place='foot'>Eastern v. City of Louisville, 13 Ky. L. Rep., 279; 15
S. W., 1117.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_450'/><hi rend='bold'>450.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Abandoned, Bodies.</hi>&mdash;When a cemetery
has been abandoned, those who have
relatives buried there may incorporate it for
preservation.<note place='foot'>Burke v. Wall, 29 La. Ann., 38; Appeal of Gumbert,
110 Pa. St., 496; 1 At, 437.</note> Also, a corporation may
change its cemetery and remove the bodies
interred therein.<note place='foot'>In re Reformed, 7 Howard's Pr., 476; Scoville v. MacMahon,
62 Conn., 378; 26 At., 479.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_451'/><hi rend='bold'>451.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Two-Family Lot, Control.</hi>&mdash;Where
a lot is owned jointly by two families, one
burying in the north half and the other in
the south half, the family burying in the
north half can not prevent the burial of a
<pb n='234'/><anchor id='Pg234'/>
member of the other family in the south half,
if entitled to be buried in that cemetery.<note place='foot'>Antrim v. Malsbury, 43 N.J. Eq., 288; 13 At., 180.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_452'/><hi rend='bold'>452.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Burying Dogs, Removal.</hi>&mdash;A person
who has a lot in a cemetery has no right
to bury any but human bodies therein, and
one who has buried a pet dog in her lot may
be compelled to remove it.<note place='foot'>Hertle v. Riddell, Ky., 106 S. W., 282; 15 L. R. A., N.
S., 796.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_453'/><hi rend='bold'>453.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Stranger, Protest, Kin.</hi>&mdash;One member
of a family can not authorize the burial
of a stranger in a family lot where his
parents are buried and against the protest of
any other relative of equal or nearer degree
of kin.<note place='foot'>Lewis v. Walker, 165 Pa. St., 30; 30 At., 500.</note> When an owner of a lot has consented
to the burial of a body therein, he
can not afterward remove the body or deface
the tombstone, and to do so would be a criminal
offense.<note place='foot'>State v. Wilson, 94 N. C., 1015.</note> When a lot is sold to one person,
the cemetery association has the right
to limit interments to members of the family
owning the lot. However, where there is
nothing concerning it in the laws or rules of
the association, it might be different.<note place='foot'>Farelly v. Metairie, 42 La. Ann., 28; 10 So., 386; Commonwealth
v. Maria, 2 Weekly Notes Cases, 244.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_454'/><hi rend='bold'>454.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Association, Bishop, Stipulation,
Certificate, License, Revocable.</hi>&mdash;The Germans
of Cincinnati formed an association
<pb n='235'/><anchor id='Pg235'/>
and purchased ten acres of land for a cemetery
<q>for German immigrants, their families,
and relatives, of Cincinnati and its vicinity,
who might be members of the Catholic
Church and in accordance with the doctrine,
discipline, usage, and ceremonies of the
same.</q> They incorporated with fifteen trustees
to be elected annually. Before he would
bless the cemetery, the bishop required and
the committee stipulated with him in writing
the following: That the rules of the Catholic
Church should always be faithfully observed
in this chiefly: First, that no one
should be buried in the ground who had not
been baptized or who died out of communion
of the Catholic Church, to which the
bishop or in his absence the clergy of the
German Catholic Church or churches,
should be the judge; second, that no poor
person should be denied a place therein because
his parents were unwilling to pay;
third, that any money accrued from the
ground should be expended for pious uses
and specifically for the relief of the German
Catholic poor; fourth, that the remains of
persons interred in Catharine Street burial-ground
might be removed to the new
ground. The bishop subsequently closed
the cemetery as a place for burial of Catholics
because the congregation had violated
<pb n='236'/><anchor id='Pg236'/>
the stipulation: <q>First, by admitting those
to burial who died out of the communion of
the Catholic Church; second, by refusing to
poor persons the right of burial; third, by
expending the funds of the association in
other than pious uses and relief of the poor.</q>
The court held that the corporation had authority
to determine that the cemetery
should continue to be used as such, but the
conditions might be enforced by any one interested.<note place='foot'>Hullman v. Honcomp, 5 Ohio St., 237.</note>
Also the question was brought
before the court in a case where a man had
fallen away from the Church, and the court
held that the certificate was a mere license
giving no property rights, and revocable;
and that the question as to whether the party
to be buried therein was in communion with
the Church, was one over which the Church
itself had exclusive jurisdiction.<note place='foot'>MacGuire v. St. Patrick's, 54 Hun., 207.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_455'/><hi rend='bold'>455.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Rules, Diocese.</hi>&mdash;One who buys the
privilege of burying his dead in a cemetery
acquires no general right of property, but
only a right to use the grounds as a place of
interment, and the rules governing a cemetery
in force at the time the privilege is
acquired measure the extent of the use.
Where a rule of the church having charge
of the cemetery forbids the burial of non-Catholics
<pb n='237'/><anchor id='Pg237'/>
therein, the bishop of the diocese
and the local priest, who according to the
usage of the church were vested with control,
had authority and power to restrain a
holder of a lot from interring the body of
his son who was not in communion with the
church at the time of his death, and who
committed suicide.<note place='foot'>Dwenger v. Geary, 113 Ind., 106; 14 N. E., 903; Nance
v. Busby, 91 Tenn., 303; 15 L. R. A., 801.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_456'/><hi rend='bold'>456.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Negroes, Indians.</hi>&mdash;The fact that a
man is a negro, Indian, or other racial
human being, is not good ground to prevent
his burial in a cemetery.<note place='foot'>Mt. Maria v. Commonwealth, 81 Pa. St., 235; 22 Am.
Rep., 743; Cemetery Co. v. Walker, 29 Ky. L. R., 1252;
97 S. W., 34; 7 L. R. A., N. S., 155.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_457'/><hi rend='bold'>457.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Will, Body, Custody.</hi>&mdash;Where no
disposition of a body has been made by will,
the surviving husband, or wife, or next of
kin, has the right to the body for the purpose
of burial. But the right of the surviving
wife or husband, if they were living together
at the time of the death of deceased,
is paramount to that of the next of kin.<note place='foot'>Larson v. Chase, 47 Minn., 307; 50 N. W., 238; 14 L.
R. A., 85; 28 Am. St. R., 370; Pettigrew v. P., 207 Pa., 313;
56 At., 878; 64 L. R. A., 179.</note> A
right to the custody of the body of a deceased
relative and to decide upon the final
place of burial where the deceased is unmarried,
<pb n='238'/><anchor id='Pg238'/>
is in his next of kin, and this right
will be protected by the courts.<note place='foot'>McEntee v. Bonacum, 66 Neb., 651; 92 N. W., 633; 66
L. R. A., 440.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_458'/><hi rend='bold'>458.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Non-Residence, Burial.</hi>&mdash;Non-residence
does not divest a person of the right
to burial with his relatives.<note place='foot'>Hook v. Joyce, 94 Ky., 450; 22 S. W., 651; 21 L. R.
A., 96.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_459'/><hi rend='bold'>459.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>State, Vacate, Equity, Rule.</hi>&mdash;The
State may require the removal of the bodies
and vacate a cemetery without compensation
to lot owners in some extraordinary cases of
eminent domain or as a health measure.<note place='foot'>Columbus v. C., 82 Wis., 334; 52 N. W., 425; 16 L. R.
A., 695; Mt. Hope v. Boston, 158 Mass., 509; 33 N. E.,
695; 35 Am. St. R., 515; Kincaid's Appeal, 66 Pa. St., 411;
5 Am. R., 377; Bessimer v. Jenkins, 111 Ala., 135; 56 Am.
St. R., 26; 18 So., 565.</note>
Courts of equity exercise some discretion in
cases that do not fall within this rule.<note place='foot'>Wilson v. Reed, 68 At., 37, N. H.; Wormley v. Wormley,
207 Ill., 411; 60 N. E., 865; 3 L. R. A., N. S., 481.</note> But
the superintendent of a cemetery has no
right to remove a child without the consent
of the father who owns the lot.<note place='foot'>Thirkfield v. Mountain, 12 Utah, 76; 41 Pac., 564;
Wright v. Hollywood, 112 Ga., 884; 38 S. E., 94; 52 L. R.
A., 621.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_460'/><hi rend='bold'>460.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Consent, Bishop, Removal.</hi>&mdash;With
the consent of deceased's husband before the
funeral, the father of deceased paid for the
lot in which his daughter wished to be
buried with her parents. Her mother being
dissatisfied with the location, the lot was
<pb n='239'/><anchor id='Pg239'/>
subsequently exchanged for another in the
same cemetery; but after preliminary arrangements
had been made, the son-in-law
applied to a court of equity for a writ restraining
the father and the bishop from
removing the body. The bishop answered
that he was willing to conform to any order
of the court. The court held that by acceding
to his wife's request and allowing her
father to bury her in the first instance, and
by standing mute while the arrangements
for the removal of the body were being
made, the husband had no right thereafter
to prevent the removal of his wife's body.<note place='foot'>Toppin v. Moriarty, 59 N. J. Eq., 115; 44 At., 469; 50
Cen. L. J., 21.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_461'/><hi rend='bold'>461.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Court, Remove, Consent.</hi>&mdash;In a
proper case a court may grant a decree to
remove the body of a relative from one cemetery
to another.<note place='foot'>Cohen v. Cong., 99 N. Y. S., 732.</note> Otherwise no one has
the right to exhume or remove a body without
the consent of those having charge of
the cemetery and of those having the right
of burial, as consort or the next of kin. In
some States the offense is a felony.<note place='foot'>Feeley v. Andrews, 191 Mass., 313; 77 N. E., 766; State
v. McLean, 121 N. C., 589; 28 S. E., 140; 42 L. R. A., 721.</note> In
Nebraska, at least, those who have the legal
right to bury a relative may remove his body
<pb n='240'/><anchor id='Pg240'/>
from one Catholic cemetery to another without
the consent of the bishop.<note place='foot'>McEntee v. Bonacum, 66 Neb., 651; 92 N. W., 633; 66
L. R. A., 440.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_462'/><hi rend='bold'>462.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Crime, Fraud, Exhume, Autopsy.</hi>&mdash;In
an action on an insurance policy where
there is evidence of fraud, as death by
poison, a court may order a body exhumed
for examination, although the person having
the right to control the burial of the body is
not a party to the suit.<note place='foot'>Mutual, etc., v. Griesa, 156 F., 398.</note> Public officials
have the right to disinter a body to ascertain
whether a crime has been committed.<note place='foot'>Hayes v. State, 112 Wis., 304; 87 N. W., 1076.</note> But
without a coroner's inquest or consent of the
surviving consort or next of kin, a doctor
has no right to perform an autopsy.<note place='foot'>14 L. R. A., 85; Young v. College of Physicians, 81
Md., 358; 32 At., 177; 31 L. R. A., 540; Meyers v. Clarke,
28 Ky. L., 1000; 90 S. W., 1049; 5 L. R. A., N. S., 727.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_463'/><hi rend='bold'>463.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Tort, Corpse.</hi>&mdash;The general rule is
that an action of tort may be maintained by
the widow or next of kin for the mutilation
of a corpse or even for negligently exposing
it to the elements.<note place='foot'>Lindh v. Ry., 99 Minn., 408; 109 N. W., 823; 7 L. R.
A., N. S., 1018.</note> In a few cases the right
has been denied.<note place='foot'>Long v. Ry., 15 Oklahoma, 512; 86 Pac., 289; 6 L. R.
A., N. S., 883; Griffith v. Charlotte, 23 S. C., 25; 55 Am.
Rep., 1.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_464'/><hi rend='bold'>464.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Custodian, Burial, Mutilation.</hi>&mdash;In
the absence of a widow, a son is the lawful
<pb n='241'/><anchor id='Pg241'/>
custodian of the body of his deceased father
for preservation, representation, and burial,
and may maintain an action for unlawful
mutilation thereof. The sense of outrage
and mental suffering resulting directly from
the wilful mutilation of the body of a parent,
is a proper independent element of compensatory
damages.<note place='foot'>Koerber v. Patek, 123 Wis., 453; 102 N. W., 40; Thompson
v. State, 105 Tenn., 177; 58 S. W., 213; 80 Am. St. R.,
875; 51 L. R. A., 883.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_465'/><hi rend='bold'>465.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Property in a Corpse, Mummy, Executors.</hi>&mdash;The
question of property in a
corpse has been generally denied. However,
in case of a mummy which has become an
object of curiosity, the case may be different.
Where a testator ordered his body
burned and the executor presented a bill for
£321 for doing so, the court disallowed it on
the ground that when a man is dead his next
of kin or executors have the right to dispose
of his body; but that as it is not property, a
man has no right to bequeath it for a particular
purpose.<note place='foot'>Williams v. Williams, 20 Ch. Div., 659.</note> Also, where a man was
in jail and died during his imprisonment and
the jailer refused to give up the body until
the debt was paid, the court held that there
was no property in the corpse, and therefore
there could be no lien upon it and he
must surrender it.<note place='foot'>Reg. v. Fox, 2 Q. B., 246.</note>
</p>

<pb n='242'/><anchor id='Pg242'/>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_466'/><hi rend='bold'>466.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Rights, Duties, Body, Will.</hi>&mdash;While
there is no property in a dead body so that it
may be sold, there are rights and duties out
of which may arise tort and criminal actions.
The question of the right of a man to dispose
of his body by will is not well settled in this
country.<note place='foot'>52 Cen. L. J., 141.</note> There are many cases that hold
that a person has the right to make a binding
testamentary disposition of his own body
after death.<note place='foot'>O'Donnell v. Slack, 123 Cal., 285; 55 Pacific, 906; 43
L. R. A., 388; Neighbors v. Neighbors, 23 Ky. L., 1433;
65 S. W., 607; Larson v. Chase, 47 Minn., 307; 50 N. W.,
238; 14 L. R. A., 85.</note> But on the contrary it has
been held that one can not by his will confer
any right as to the disposition of his body.<note place='foot'>Enos v. Snyder, 131 Cal., 68; 63 Pac., 170; 82 Am. St.
R., 330; 53 L. R. A., 21.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_467'/><hi rend='bold'>467.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Monument, Fence.</hi>&mdash;Giving the right
to bury in one's cemetery lot carries with it
the right to erect a monument; but it does not
carry with it the right to fence the cemetery
lot or interfere with other graves therein.
Therefore, the monument must be of such
size and so located and erected as not to interfere
with the rights of others.<note place='foot'>Thompson v. Deeds, 93 Ia., 228; 61 N. W., 842.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_468'/><hi rend='bold'>468.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Tombstone, Mother-in-Law.</hi>&mdash;A
husband has the right to remove a tombstone
that his mother-in-law put over his wife's
grave, and put up one of his own choice
<pb n='243'/><anchor id='Pg243'/>
instead.<note place='foot'>Durrell v. Haywood, 75 Mass., 248.</note> The general rule is that vaults and
tombstones are personal property and may
be removed <q>in good faith and with care
and decency</q> by the next of kin.<note place='foot'>Boham v. Loeb, 107 Ala., 604; 18 So., 300; Hamilton v.
State, 30 Ind., 482; Partridge v. First, 39 Md., 631; Fletcher
v. Evans, 140 Mass., 24; 2 N. E., 837.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_469'/><hi rend='bold'>469.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Trees, Authority.</hi>&mdash;It is a criminal
offense to cut trees in a cemetery without
right or authority.<note place='foot'>Commonwealth v. Viall, 84 Mass., 512.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_470'/><hi rend='bold'>470.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charitable, Institution, Negligence.</hi>&mdash;A
Catholic cemetery without capital stock
or shares and paying no profits nor dividends,
does not come under the head of a
charitable institution so as to relieve it from
liability for negligence.<note place='foot'>Donnelly v. Boston, 146 Mass., 163; 15 N. E., 505.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_471'/><hi rend='bold'>471.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Equity, Repair, Injuries.</hi>&mdash;A cemetery
association may by bill in equity be
forced to keep walks and drives in good repair
and consequently is liable for injuries
resulting from its negligence.<note place='foot'>Houston v. Drew, 13 Tex. Cir. App., 536; 36 S. W., 802.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='244'/><anchor id='Pg244'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXXIV. Miscellaneous</head>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_472'/><hi rend='bold'>472.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Societies, Law.</hi>&mdash;Religious societies
organized in connection with a church or
congregation are in law civil societies and
not ecclesiastical corporations, and are governed
by the law of the land. Therefore,
the law of fraternities fully covers all questions
that arise in such societies. The subject
is too comprehensive to be treated at any
length here.<note place='foot'>Robertson v. Bullions, 11 N. Y., 243.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_473'/><hi rend='bold'>473.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Society, Bishop.</hi>&mdash;A society may
expel a member on due notice and a fair
trial. The refusal of the bishop to recognize
a fraternity organized as a Roman Catholic
society, does not prevent the society and its
officers from exercising the powers of a
religious corporation conferred by law nor
prohibit its members from maintaining their
religious worship.<note place='foot'>Canadian v. Palmenter, 180 Mass., 415; 62 N. E., 740.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_474'/><hi rend='bold'>474.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Priest, Doorkeeper, Policemen, Arrest.</hi>&mdash;A
priest who was in charge of a
parish and had control of the temporalities
consisting of pew-rents, Sunday and other
<pb n='245'/><anchor id='Pg245'/>
collections, graveyard, church, school, fees,
and donations, on account of disorderly behavior
of members issued tickets to those
to be admitted and ordered a doorkeeper to
prevent others from entering the church. A
woman without a ticket and talking loudly,
endeavored to force her way into the church,
although there were several policemen on
duty who attempted to stop her. She was
arrested and her husband brought suit for
false imprisonment. The court held that a
clergyman has a right to keep disturbers out
of the church and that the doorkeepers have
a right to use sufficient force to carry out
the orders of the priest; but when a doorkeeper
went beyond those orders by causing
the arrest of the woman, he was not acting
within the apparent scope of his employment
and the priest was not liable.<note place='foot'>Barabasz v. Kabat, 86 Md., 23; 37 At., 720.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_475'/><hi rend='bold'>475.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Saloon, Church, License.</hi>&mdash;A man
owned premises that had been occupied as
a saloon from 1894. In 1896 the New York
law prohibiting saloons to be licensed within
200 feet of a church, except places where
liquor traffic had been carried on prior to
that time, was passed. In 1898 a church
was built within 200 feet of the saloon in
question. After the building of the church,
the saloon was vacated for about ten days
<pb n='246'/><anchor id='Pg246'/>
during a change of saloonkeepers, and an
action was brought to revoke the license of
the new saloonkeeper. The court held that
the incidental interruption of the business
did not bring the place within the prohibition
of the law, and that the license could
not be revoked.<note place='foot'>In re Hawkins, 165 N. Y., 188; 58 N. E., 884.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_476'/><hi rend='bold'>476.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Y. M. C. A.</hi>&mdash;The Y. M. C. A. on
account of giving lunches, lectures, and
having a gymnasium, for which charges are
made, is not a charitable institution so as to
be exempt from liability in case of negligence.
Property is exempt only when used
for exempt purposes exclusively.<note place='foot'>Chapin v. Holyoke, 165 Mass., 280; 42 N. E., 1130; Am.
&amp; Eng. Cyc. of L., <q>Taxation.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_477'/><hi rend='bold'>477.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Students, Vote, Residence.</hi>&mdash;Students
at a seminary studying for the priesthood
do not thereby lose their residence at
their homes and are not entitled to vote
where a college is located. The fact that
they intend to remain for four years, become
clergymen, and then go to wherever they
may be called, does not give them the right
of residence, and there is no distinction between
them and any other students away
from home at school.<note place='foot'>In re Barry, 164 N. Y., 18; 58 N. E., 12.</note> However, a student
of full age might become a voter in the college
<pb n='247'/><anchor id='Pg247'/>
precinct if he has no other fixed domicile.<note place='foot'>American Law of Electors, McCrary, sec. 41.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_478'/><hi rend='bold'>478.</hi> <hi rend='italic'><q>My Wife, Anna Jones,</q> Divorce,
Insurance.</hi>&mdash;A bequest or devise to <q>my
wife, Anna Jones,</q> is not changed by a divorce
without some evidence to prove that
the testator did not intend his divorced wife
to share in his estate, unless the judgment
of divorce made a division of the property.
The same is true of a policy of insurance or
benefit certificate. However, there are exceptions
that weaken the rule and make its
application in some States uncertain.<note place='foot'>Lansing v. Haynes, 95 Mich., 16; 54 N. W., 699; Baacke
v. Baacke, 50 Neb., 18; 69 N., 303; Jones, Jr., estate, 211
Pa., 364; 60 At., 915; 69 L. R. A., 940; White v. B. of
A. Y., 124 Ia., 293; 99 N. W., 1071; 66 L. R. A., 164.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_479'/><hi rend='bold'>479.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Bells, Sick, Injunction.</hi>&mdash;On the
complaint of an injured person, a court will
issue an injunction restraining the ringing
of church, convent, or other bells, at unusual
hours or when their noise is injurious to the
sick, or when their vibration affects other
premises. As the law of nuisances applies
in such cases, an exact statement of when
the court should issue the injunction or
whether the injunction should be temporary
or perpetual, can not be given; but when
the personal or property rights of others
<pb n='248'/><anchor id='Pg248'/>
are affected, an injunction may be granted.
The fact that the bells are chimes or part
of a clock does not change the rule.<note place='foot'>Rogers v. Elliott, 146 Mass., 349; 15 N. E., 768; Davis
v. Sawyer, 133 Mass., 289; 43 Am. R., 519; Harrison v.
St. Mark's, 12 Phil., 259; Soltau v. DeHeld, 9 Eng. L. &amp;
E., 104; Leete v. Pilgrim Cong. Ch., 14 Mo. App., 590.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_480'/><hi rend='bold'>480.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Marriage, Impediments, Recording.</hi>&mdash;Legal
marriage may be contracted only
between unmarried persons not related
within the prohibited degrees of consanguinity
or affinity, of lawful age and sufficient
mental and physical capacity. Statutes
vary greatly. In some States affinity is not
considered a legal objection and first cousins
may marry; in others, both are prohibited
and other limitations of relationship, race,
and color are fixed, and registration of the
clergymen and licenses to wed are required.
Also, the clergyman must report the marriage
promptly to the proper office. Fines,
penalties, and imprisonment are usually provided
for violating the law. Informal
marriages may or may not be voidable or
void.<note place='foot'>Osborne v. Osborne, New York, Sept. 12, 1908; Landry
v. Bellanger, 45 So., 956; 15 L. R. A., N. S., 463; Lawson
v. Lawson, 30 Tex. Civ. App., 43; 69 S. W., 246;
Schmitt v. Schneider, 109 Ga., 628; 35 S. E., 145.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_481'/><hi rend='bold'>481.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Charivari, Wedding Pranks.</hi>&mdash;Charivari,
assaults, and disorderly conduct
are unlawful at all times, and can not be
<pb n='249'/><anchor id='Pg249'/>
justified by custom.<note place='foot'>14 Cyc, 466.</note> A newly wedded man
who was serenaded (charivaried) by his
neighbors by firing guns, blowing horns,
beating pans, rattling horse-fiddles, etc.,
after ordering the rioters off fired into the
crowd and wounded one of them. On trial
for assault with intent to kill, the groom was
acquitted. Shooting might not be justifiable
in cases where less potent agencies,
such as a horsewhip or dogs, are sufficient,
or where the immediate protection of person
or property does not call for it. The law
should be invoked when no exigency for
force exists.<note place='foot'>Minagham v. State, 77 Wis., 643; 46 N. W., 894; Gilmore
v. Fuller, 198 Ill., 130; 65 N. E., 84.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_482'/><hi rend='bold'>482.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Infallibility of Courts.</hi>&mdash;When a
question of law at issue in a case is duly
presented to a supreme court which is the
court of last resort, its decision thereon becomes
<q>the law of the case</q> and is thereafter
binding upon the court itself and all
the courts inferior to it; and no matter how
often that identical case may come before
the court on subsequent appeals, the questions
already decided therein will not be reconsidered.
It is interesting to compare this
principle of our courts with Papal
<pb n='250'/><anchor id='Pg250'/>
infallibility.<note place='foot'>Am. &amp; Eng. Ency. of L., <q>Stara decisis,</q> <q>Res judicata</q>;
67 Central L. Journal, 255; Pautz v. Plankinton,
126 Wis., 37; 105 N. W., 482; Whittaker v. Mich. M. L.
Ins. Co., 83 N. E., 899.</note> Courts do not always adhere to the
rule.<note place='foot'>Bonacum v. Murphy, 71 Neb., 463; 104 N. W., 180.</note>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Para_483'/><hi rend='bold'>483.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Money Stolen, Bailed or Loaned,
Insolvency, Gifts.</hi>&mdash;Property stolen by A.
or left with him as bailee to be returned in
specie, can not be given away by him for
charity. Also, when a man is insolvent he
has no right to give away any of his property.<note place='foot'>U. S. Bankruptcy Act, sec. 1, sub-sec. 25.</note>
That has been the rule of law since
Coke laid down the maxim: <q>A man must
be just before he is generous.</q> One is insolvent
when his debts exceed the value of
his unexempt property.<note place='foot'>20 Cyc, 457.</note> When an insolvent
debtor makes a gift, a creditor may
sue and recover from the donee; or in a
proper case the creditor may force the
debtor into bankruptcy to recover the gift.<note place='foot'>20 Cyc, 1243; Insolvent Corporations, Wait, sec. 637.</note>
The want of knowledge or good faith of the
donee is immaterial and no defense to an
action to recover the property.<note place='foot'>20 Cyc, 469.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='251'/><anchor id='Pg251'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Index</head>

<p>
The References Are To The Sections.
</p>

<lg>
<l>A</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Abandoned cemetery, <ref target='Para_449'>449</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>property reverts, <ref target='Para_295'>295</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Accepting a draft, officer, <ref target='Para_162'>162</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Access to cemetery, right of, <ref target='Para_442'>442</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Account, officers must, <ref target='Para_297'>297</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Action in church tribunal, <ref target='Para_86'>86</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>for expulsion, <ref target='Para_137'>137</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>unincorporated party, <ref target='Para_217'>217</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>slander by deceased, <ref target='Para_382'>382</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Acts of majority, when void, <ref target='Para_177'>177</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Adjournment, <ref target='Para_181'>181</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Adoption of children, <ref target='Para_367'>367</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Adoration, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Adverse possession, cemetery, <ref target='Para_446'>446</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>church property, <ref target='Para_257'>257</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Aid from Government, <ref target='Para_46'>46</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Agent, priest of bishop, <ref target='Para_270'>270</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Alabama, bequest for Masses, <ref target='Para_316'>316</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ambiguity, proof clearing, <ref target='Para_326'>326</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ambiguous provision, proof, <ref target='Para_272'>272</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>America, civil and common law, <ref target='Para_17'>17</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Anonymous letter not privileged, <ref target='Para_224'>224</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Answer of priest as witness, <ref target='Para_222'>222</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Appeal, church tribunal, <ref target='Para_86'>86</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>right of, <ref target='Para_206'>206</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Application, for cemetery, <ref target='Para_427'>427</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Appointed officers, <ref target='Para_121'>121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Appropriation for hospital, <ref target='Para_44'>44</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>can not be from taxes, <ref target='Para_335'>335</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>indirect, <ref target='Para_335'>335</ref>, <ref target='Para_46'>46</ref>, <ref target='Para_28'>28</ref>, <ref target='Para_375'>375</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Argument when privileged, <ref target='Para_387'>387</ref>, <ref target='Para_386'>386</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Arrears, pew rent, membership, <ref target='Para_250'>250</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Arrest, authority, damages, <ref target='Para_474'>474</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Assault and battery, <ref target='Para_387'>387</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Assessment, of pews, <ref target='Para_243'>243</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of cemetery void, <ref target='Para_293'>293</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Assistance to enforce order, <ref target='Para_356'>356</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Association, discipline, bishop, <ref target='Para_454'>454</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Attainder, not lawful, <ref target='Para_36'>36</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Attendance, test of membership, <ref target='Para_144'>144</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Authority in ancient nations, <ref target='Para_3'>3</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>inferior must obey, <ref target='Para_85'>85</ref>, <ref target='Para_93'>93</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>use of force by priest, <ref target='Para_100'>100</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>court may decide contested, <ref target='Para_112'>112</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of priest as to cemetery, <ref target='Para_281'>281</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of sexton in church, <ref target='Para_314'>314</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of teacher outside of school, <ref target='Para_355'>355</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>to cut trees in cemetery, <ref target='Para_469'>469</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Autopsy, authority to make, <ref target='Para_462'>462</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>B</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bankruptcy, church, <ref target='Para_302'>302</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bailee, gift of, <ref target='Para_483'>483</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>donor, <ref target='Para_483'>483</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='Index-Ballot'/>
<l>Ballot, when required, <ref target='Para_149'>149</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='252'/><anchor id='Pg252'/>

<lg>
<l>Baptism, how to record, <ref target='Para_191'>191</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bells, ringing a nuisance, <ref target='Para_479'>479</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Benefit, work for, on Sunday, <ref target='Para_409'>409</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Benefit of the Clergy,</q> <ref target='Para_10'>10</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bequest, legatees, religion, <ref target='Para_136'>136</ref>, <ref target='Para_320'>320</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>purpose of enforceable, <ref target='Para_284'>284</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>laws of state control, <ref target='Para_306'>306</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>consent of heirs to change, <ref target='Para_313'>313</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>mistake may not defeat, <ref target='Para_317'>317</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Birth, how record kept, <ref target='Para_191'>191</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='Index-Bible'/>
<l>Bible in schools, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>, <ref target='Para_49'>49</ref>, <ref target='Para_218'>218</ref>, <ref target='Para_347'>347</ref>, <ref target='Para_348'>348</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>constitution of sect, <ref target='Para_127'>127</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>constitutional rights, <ref target='Para_350'>350</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Indian schools, <ref target='Para_375'>375</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bigamy, unconstitutional, <ref target='Para_38'>38</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>charge of, slander, <ref target='Para_384'>384</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bishop, superior authority, <ref target='Para_81'>81</ref>, <ref target='Para_83'>83</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>subject to Pope, <ref target='Para_82'>82</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>discipline of priest, <ref target='Para_99'>99</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>church debts, <ref target='Para_169'>169</ref>, <ref target='Para_261'>261</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>removal of priest, <ref target='Para_199'>199</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>deed of church land, <ref target='Para_287'>287</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>control over cemetery, <ref target='Para_454'>454</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>removal of bodies, <ref target='Para_460'>460</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>societies, control of, <ref target='Para_473'>473</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bishop's residence, taxes, <ref target='Para_331'>331</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Blasphemy, a crime, <ref target='Para_405'>405</ref>, <ref target='Para_218'>218</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Blessed Virgin, <ref target='Para_406'>406</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Board acts as body only, <ref target='Para_360'>360</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>authority outside of school, <ref target='Para_355'>355</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bodies, change of cemeteries, <ref target='Para_450'>450</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>custody of deed, <ref target='Para_457'>457</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>disposing by will, <ref target='Para_466'>466</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>property in, <ref target='Para_465'>465</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bologna, law school of, <ref target='Para_14'>14</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Burned church, land title, <ref target='Para_294'>294</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Building, liability of members, <ref target='Para_56'>56</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>subscriptions for, <ref target='Para_275'>275</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>committee, liability, <ref target='Para_170'>170</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>contracts, liability, <ref target='Para_233'>233</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Burial, right of, <ref target='Para_113'>113</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>regulations, <ref target='Para_429'>429</ref>, <ref target='Para_445'>445</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>non-resident, <ref target='Para_458'>458</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>right to control, <ref target='Para_464'>464</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Burying dogs in cemetery, <ref target='Para_452'>452</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Business, religion, <ref target='Para_110'>110</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>notice of meeting, <ref target='Para_176'>176</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>law will enforce, <ref target='Para_230'>230</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Sunday, <ref target='Para_408'>408</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>or property, libel of, <ref target='Para_394'>394</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>By-laws of sects and church, <ref target='Para_22'>22</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>govern elections, <ref target='Para_148'>148</ref>, <ref target='Para_152'>152</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>subject to state law, <ref target='Para_153'>153</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>control officers, <ref target='Para_153'>153</ref>, <ref target='Para_159'>159</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>amending, <ref target='Para_252'>252</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of cemetery association, <ref target='Para_445'>445</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>C</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>California missions, <ref target='Para_268'>268</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Canon Law, analysis, <ref target='Para_6'>6</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Canons of the church, title, <ref target='Para_280'>280</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Casting vote, chairman, <ref target='Para_186'>186</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Catholic Church, corporation, <ref target='Para_58'>58</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>control of pews in, <ref target='Para_239'>239</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>free pews, reformation, <ref target='Para_237'>237</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>discipline, suits, <ref target='Para_208'>208</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cemetery, authority over, <ref target='Para_281'>281</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>assessment for taxes, <ref target='Para_293'>293</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Indian, <ref target='Para_372'>372</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Certificate, cemetery lot, <ref target='Para_438'>438</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>conditions of, <ref target='Para_454'>454</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of election, effect of, <ref target='Para_157'>157</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Certified copies as evidence, <ref target='Para_192'>192</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Challenge of voter, <ref target='Para_147'>147</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>waiver of, <ref target='Para_186'>186</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Chances,</q> <q>fairs,</q> unlawful, <ref target='Para_420'>420</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='253'/><anchor id='Pg253'/>

<lg>
<l>Change of use of land, <ref target='Para_53'>53</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of church government, <ref target='Para_67'>67</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>name of church, <ref target='Para_69'>69</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>doctrine, membership, <ref target='Para_289'>289</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>burial place, <ref target='Para_450'>450</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Charge for services, <ref target='Para_166'>166</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Charges against member, <ref target='Para_202'>202</ref>, <ref target='Para_389'>389</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Charitable institutions, <ref target='Para_333'>333</ref>, <ref target='Para_338'>338</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>liability, <ref target='Para_470'>470</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>trust, trustee, <ref target='Para_325'>325</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Charity, definition of, <ref target='Para_328'>328</ref>, <ref target='Para_409'>409</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Elks, Masons, <ref target='Para_333'>333</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of debtor, <ref target='Para_483'>483</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Charivari, unlawful, <ref target='Para_481'>481</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Charter limits corporation, <ref target='Para_153'>153</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>by-laws under, <ref target='Para_252'>252</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>real estate, <ref target='Para_339'>339</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of cemetery, <ref target='Para_428'>428</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Chastisement, by teacher, <ref target='Para_354'>354</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Child, rights, duties, <ref target='Para_361'>361</ref>, <ref target='Para_370'>370</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>expelling from school, <ref target='Para_352'>352</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>religion of, <ref target='Para_365'>365</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>out of school, <ref target='Para_352'>352</ref>, <ref target='Para_355'>355</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Christian Healer,</q> consent to <ref target='Para_417'>417</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Christian Scientist,</q> manslaughter, <ref target='Para_42'>42</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Christians, who, are, <ref target='Para_24'>24</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Church, definition, <ref target='Para_20'>20</ref>, <ref target='Para_23'>23</ref>, <ref target='Para_24'>24</ref>, <ref target='Para_398'>398</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>secession, heresy, <ref target='Para_70'>70</ref>, <ref target='Para_126'>126</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>debts of, bishop, <ref target='Para_169'>169</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>removal of, authority, <ref target='Para_275'>275</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>buildings, use of, <ref target='Para_276'>276</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>majority control, <ref target='Para_289'>289</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Indian churches, <ref target='Para_372'>372</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>personal property, when, <ref target='Para_299'>299</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>and state, <ref target='Para_15'>15</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>records, evidence, <ref target='Para_191'>191</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>births, baptisms, <ref target='Para_191'>191</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>when libelous, <ref target='Para_381'>381</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>tribunals, authority, <ref target='Para_216'>216</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Church of Latter Day Saints,</q> <ref target='Para_39'>39</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Citizens, clergy as, <ref target='Para_92'>92</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Indians, states, <ref target='Para_371'>371</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Civil rights, procedure, <ref target='Para_207'>207</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>state protects, <ref target='Para_210'>210</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>law, Florida, Louisiana, <ref target='Para_17'>17</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Clerk of church board, authority, <ref target='Para_177'>177</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Clergy, bishop may change, <ref target='Para_83'>83</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>exemptions of, <ref target='Para_103'>103</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>salaries, <ref target='Para_106'>106</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Clergyman, definition, <ref target='Para_31'>31</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>duties and rights, <ref target='Para_92'>92</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>privileged evidence, <ref target='Para_224'>224</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>undue influence, <ref target='Para_318'>318</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>disciplinary rights, <ref target='Para_386'>386</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Closing church, <ref target='Para_213'>213</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Color of title, possession, <ref target='Para_257'>257</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Collateral attack, <ref target='Para_307'>307</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Commissioner of Indian schools, <ref target='Para_375'>375</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Common law and the church, <ref target='Para_12'>12</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>crimes under, <ref target='Para_401'>401</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Communicants, membership, <ref target='Para_144'>144</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Competent witness, <ref target='Para_220'>220</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Complaint, allegations, <ref target='Para_215'>215</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Conditions, <ref target='Para_436'>436</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Confessions, privacy, <ref target='Para_100'>100</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>not evidence, <ref target='Para_221'>221</ref>, <ref target='Para_226'>226</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>non-sacramental, <ref target='Para_223'>223</ref>, <ref target='Para_224'>224</ref>, <ref target='Para_225'>225</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>witness, privilege, <ref target='Para_222'>222</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Confidential communications, libel, <ref target='Para_377'>377</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Congregation, authority in, <ref target='Para_65'>65</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>insubordinate, <ref target='Para_90'>90</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Conscience, Bible, law, <ref target='Para_350'>350</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Consent, to hold meeting, <ref target='Para_179'>179</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>to sell or mortgage, <ref target='Para_264'>264</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>daughter becoming nun, <ref target='Para_366'>366</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>to <q>Christian Healer,</q> <ref target='Para_417'>417</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>to location of cemetery, <ref target='Para_427'>427</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bishop's to remove body, <ref target='Para_460'>460</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>court may, <ref target='Para_461'>461</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Consideration, good, <ref target='Para_234'>234</ref>, <ref target='Para_236'>236</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='254'/><anchor id='Pg254'/>

<lg>
<l>Constantine, Christians, <ref target='Para_9'>9</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Constitution of a church, <ref target='Para_21'>21</ref>, <ref target='Para_81'>81</ref>, <ref target='Para_88'>88</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of U. S. and Church, <ref target='Para_45'>45</ref>, <ref target='Para_68'>68</ref>, <ref target='Para_127'>127</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>members, Bible, <ref target='Para_127'>127</ref>, <ref target='Para_350'>350</ref>, <ref target='Para_358'>358</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Consolidation of churches, <ref target='Para_73'>73</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Contests, how settled, <ref target='Para_158'>158</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>suit for bequest, <ref target='Para_319'>319</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>to hold meeting, <ref target='Para_179'>179</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Contracts, with churches, <ref target='Para_46'>46</ref>, <ref target='Para_335'>335</ref>, <ref target='Para_345'>345</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>binding members, <ref target='Para_59'>59</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>State courts enforce, <ref target='Para_292'>292</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Sunday, <ref target='Para_410'>410</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Contributions to deposed priest, <ref target='Para_104'>104</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>right to enjoy, <ref target='Para_310'>310</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Control of business of church, <ref target='Para_72'>72</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>vests in corporation, <ref target='Para_73'>73</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>doctrine and discipline, <ref target='Para_122'>122</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>under state law, <ref target='Para_155'>155</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>board of trustees, <ref target='Para_161'>161</ref>, <ref target='Para_279'>279</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>societies' collections, <ref target='Para_274'>274</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemetery, joint lot, <ref target='Para_451'>451</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Controversy, submission of, <ref target='Para_97'>97</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Convent, consent of parents, <ref target='Para_366'>366</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Conditions, what are binding, <ref target='Para_75'>75</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>pews, lease, sale, <ref target='Para_242'>242</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bequests, deeds, <ref target='Para_284'>284</ref>, <ref target='Para_313'>313</ref>, <ref target='Para_321'>321</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>quit claim of heirs, <ref target='Para_286'>286</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Corporation, members, <ref target='Para_253'>253</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bequests to religious, <ref target='Para_306'>306</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>name, error, <ref target='Para_317'>317</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Corpse, burial, mutilation, <ref target='Para_463'>463</ref>, <ref target='Para_466'>466</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Corrective authority over wife, <ref target='Para_370'>370</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Councils of Church, <ref target='Para_378'>378</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Counsel in church tribunal, <ref target='Para_200'>200</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Courts, state, <ref target='Para_60'>60</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>church and state, <ref target='Para_216'>216</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>do not decide doctrine, <ref target='Para_311'>311</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>religion of child, <ref target='Para_365'>365</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Court of equity, church title, <ref target='Para_212'>212</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Creditors, securing, <ref target='Para_263'>263</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>gifts of debtor, <ref target='Para_483'>483</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bankruptcy, <ref target='Para_302'>302</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Creed, state courts, <ref target='Para_211'>211</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Crime, polygamy, <ref target='Para_40'>40</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>church tribunal, <ref target='Para_292'>292</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>charging, slander, <ref target='Para_388'>388</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>sins distinguished, <ref target='Para_396'>396</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>blasphemy is a, <ref target='Para_405'>405</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>autopsy to detect, <ref target='Para_462'>462</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Criticisms of clergy, <ref target='Para_385'>385</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cruel chastisement unlawful, <ref target='Para_354'>354</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Curate, appointment of, <ref target='Para_53'>53</ref>, <ref target='Para_96'>96</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>salary of, <ref target='Para_108'>108</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Custody of children, <ref target='Para_361'>361</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of wife, <ref target='Para_369'>369</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of corpse, <ref target='Para_457'>457</ref>, <ref target='Para_464'>464</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Custom of church, meetings, <ref target='Para_180'>180</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cy-pres doctrine abrogated, <ref target='Para_325'>325</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>D</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Damages, property destroyed in riot, <ref target='Para_52'>52</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>expulsion from society, <ref target='Para_188'>188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Death, record, proof, <ref target='Para_191'>191</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Debts, unincorporated body, <ref target='Para_54'>54</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>may be limited by law, <ref target='Para_74'>74</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>permission to incur, <ref target='Para_101'>101</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>individual liability, <ref target='Para_117'>117</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>seceders liable for, <ref target='Para_126'>126</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bishop's liability, <ref target='Para_169'>169</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>mortgage, <ref target='Para_261'>261</ref>, <ref target='Para_263'>263</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>power to settle, <ref target='Para_263'>263</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Decisions of church court, <ref target='Para_88'>88</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in submitted case, <ref target='Para_97'>97</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>appeal from church, <ref target='Para_206'>206</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>final in doctrine, <ref target='Para_209'>209</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Deed by order of court, <ref target='Para_254'>254</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>description of grantee, <ref target='Para_259'>259</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>to bishop, effect, <ref target='Para_262'>262</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in priest's name, <ref target='Para_267'>267</ref>, <ref target='Para_270'>270</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>conditions in, <ref target='Para_284'>284</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemetery lot, <ref target='Para_41'>41</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>form cemetery deed, <ref target='Para_438'>438</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='255'/><anchor id='Pg255'/>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>De facto</hi> officers, acts, <ref target='Para_165'>165</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Defenses, law, canon law, <ref target='Para_8'>8</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Deficiency judgment, <ref target='Para_232'>232</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Definitions, <ref target='Para_20'>20</ref>, <ref target='Para_34'>34</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>excommunication, <ref target='Para_131'>131</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Delegated authority, <ref target='Para_82'>82</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Deposed clergymen, donations to, <ref target='Para_104'>104</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Devise on condition of faith, <ref target='Para_135'>135</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>uncertainty of, <ref target='Para_271'>271</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of cemetery lot, <ref target='Para_435'>435</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Diocese, state law in, <ref target='Para_51'>51</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>title of church, <ref target='Para_266'>266</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>rules for cemeteries, <ref target='Para_455'>455</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Directors and Bible, <ref target='Para_347'>347</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Direct payment of tax to church, <ref target='Para_345'>345</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Disability of members, <ref target='Para_57'>57</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Discretion of officers, <ref target='Para_167'>167</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Disease from cemetery, <ref target='Para_434'>434</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Discipline and officers, <ref target='Para_63'>63</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bishop may enforce, <ref target='Para_83'>83</ref>, <ref target='Para_89'>89</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>members subject to, <ref target='Para_90'>90</ref>, <ref target='Para_381'>381</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>inferior authority, <ref target='Para_308'>308</ref>, <ref target='Para_381'>381</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>tribunals of church, <ref target='Para_386'>386</ref>, <ref target='Para_396'>396</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>physical, unlawful, <ref target='Para_387'>387</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Dismissal of clergyman, <ref target='Para_109'>109</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Disqualified to hold office, <ref target='Para_134'>134</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Dissolution of congregation, <ref target='Para_73'>73</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>funds of church, <ref target='Para_78'>78</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>resulting trust, <ref target='Para_327'>327</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Disturbances at church, <ref target='Para_213'>213</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>crime, punishment, <ref target='Para_397'>397</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Disturbing a religious meeting, <ref target='Para_400'>400</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Diverted trust fund, <ref target='Para_298'>298</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Division of church, <ref target='Para_129'>129</ref>, <ref target='Para_276'>276</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>title to property, <ref target='Para_290'>290</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Divorce, legacy, insurance, <ref target='Para_478'>478</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Doctor, necessary, <ref target='Para_416'>416</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Doctrine of church, <ref target='Para_21'>21</ref>, <ref target='Para_25'>25</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>change of effect, <ref target='Para_53'>53</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>condition in deed, <ref target='Para_278'>278</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>pewholders must not dictate, <ref target='Para_309'>309</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>discipline, <ref target='Para_93'>93</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Dog, burying in cemetery, <ref target='Para_452'>452</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Domicile of family, <ref target='Para_370'>370</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Donation conditioned, <ref target='Para_41'>41</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Donor, religion, proof, <ref target='Para_272'>272</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Doorkeeper, exceeding order, <ref target='Para_474'>474</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Drunkenness, dying in, <ref target='Para_443'>443</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Duties of adopted parents, <ref target='Para_367'>367</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Indian inspectors, <ref target='Para_373'>373</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>to bury dead, <ref target='Para_466'>466</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Dwelling, priest as servant, <ref target='Para_98'>98</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of family husband's, <ref target='Para_370'>370</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemetery near, <ref target='Para_430'>430</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>E</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Early Christians, law, <ref target='Para_7'>7</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Easement, title, cemetery lot, <ref target='Para_435'>435</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ecclesiastical corporations, <ref target='Para_26'>26</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>court, <ref target='Para_10'>10</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>matters, courts, <ref target='Para_209'>209</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Education for priesthood, <ref target='Para_324'>324</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of children, control, <ref target='Para_343'>343</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Elks, <ref target='Para_333'>333</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>England and Roman law, <ref target='Para_16'>16</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>confession privileged, <ref target='Para_226'>226</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>English law, <ref target='Para_17'>17</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Entries in church records, <ref target='Para_189'>189</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Equity, priest's salary, <ref target='Para_301'>301</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemetery, corpses, <ref target='Para_459'>459</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemetery repairs, <ref target='Para_471'>471</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Error in deed, <ref target='Para_260'>260</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>latent in devise, <ref target='Para_326'>326</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Established church, <ref target='Para_18'>18</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Establishment of religion, <ref target='Para_37'>37</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Estates, ecclesiastical courts, <ref target='Para_11'>11</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='256'/><anchor id='Pg256'/>

<lg>
<l>Evidence of incorporation, <ref target='Para_64'>64</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>parish books, <ref target='Para_189'>189</ref>, <ref target='Para_191'>191</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>certified copies, <ref target='Para_192'>192</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>parol evidence, <ref target='Para_273'>273</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>privileged questions, <ref target='Para_221'>221</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Excommunication, authority, <ref target='Para_87'>87</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>minor is lawful, <ref target='Para_87'>87</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><hi rend='italic'>non-tolerati</hi> is unlawful, <ref target='Para_87'>87</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>legal effect, <ref target='Para_167'>167</ref>, <ref target='Para_136'>136</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>libel and slander, <ref target='Para_381'>381</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Excuse, drunkenness, <ref target='Para_407'>407</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Executors, pew rent, <ref target='Para_249'>249</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>custody of corpse, <ref target='Para_465'>465</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Exemptions to clergy, attachment, execution, <ref target='Para_118'>118</ref>, <ref target='Para_432'>432</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Exempt church property, <ref target='Para_329'>329</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>execution, <ref target='Para_432'>432</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Exhume, crime, fraud, <ref target='Para_462'>462</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Expelled, excommunicated, <ref target='Para_87'>87</ref>, <ref target='Para_120'>120</ref>, <ref target='Para_167'>167</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Expulsion, right of church, <ref target='Para_137'>137</ref>, <ref target='Para_139'>139</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>minority, <ref target='Para_141'>141</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>from society, <ref target='Para_188'>188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Exercise, religion in school, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>, <ref target='Para_346'>346</ref>; see <q><ref target='Index-Bible'>Bible</ref>.</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>F</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Facilities for negro education, <ref target='Para_358'>358</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Factions trying each other, <ref target='Para_112'>112</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>property of, <ref target='Para_211'>211</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Fairs</q> are unlawful, <ref target='Para_420'>420</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fair trial is natural right, <ref target='Para_202'>202</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Faith, dying in, burial, <ref target='Para_113'>113</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>member must conform, <ref target='Para_142'>142</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>False statements, slander, <ref target='Para_223'>223</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>imprisonment, <ref target='Para_387'>387</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>by clergymen, libel, <ref target='Para_388'>388</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Family domicile, <ref target='Para_370'>370</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Father, duties and rights, <ref target='Para_361'>361</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>custody of child, <ref target='Para_361'>361</ref>, <ref target='Para_362'>362</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>married child, <ref target='Para_369'>369</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fee, title in, when, <ref target='Para_262'>262</ref>, <ref target='Para_440'>440</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fees of priest, <ref target='Para_105'>105</ref>, <ref target='Para_106'>106</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fence in cemetery, <ref target='Para_467'>467</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fishing on Sunday, <ref target='Para_408'>408</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Force to subdue pupil, <ref target='Para_356'>356</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>to expel disturber, <ref target='Para_403'>403</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>remove trespasser, <ref target='Para_248'>248</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Foreign language, <ref target='Para_124'>124</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Forfeiture of membership, <ref target='Para_61'>61</ref>, <ref target='Para_138'>138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>provision in will as to, <ref target='Para_285'>285</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>by use excepted, <ref target='Para_444'>444</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fraternity, members' faith, <ref target='Para_136'>136</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>excommunication of member, <ref target='Para_136'>136</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fraud, false <q>prophet</q>, <ref target='Para_171'>171</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>insurance, autopsy, <ref target='Para_462'>462</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Free church seats, regulation, <ref target='Para_248'>248</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Freedom of worship, <ref target='Para_142'>142</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Free exercise of religion, <ref target='Para_37'>37</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Freemason, burial of, <ref target='Para_439'>439</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Funds, of church, <ref target='Para_58'>58</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>dissolved church, <ref target='Para_78'>78</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>division of unlawful, <ref target='Para_129'>129</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>lien on, for money paid, <ref target='Para_267'>267</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>diverting from use, <ref target='Para_298'>298</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Funeral expenses, <ref target='Para_229'>229</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>on Sunday, <ref target='Para_411'>411</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Future uses, devise, <ref target='Para_323'>323</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>G</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Gambling, <ref target='Para_420'>420</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>General laws, corporations, <ref target='Para_62'>62</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Gifts of a bankrupt, <ref target='Para_483'>483</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>God, belief, public office, <ref target='Para_48'>48</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>crimes against, <ref target='Para_406'>406</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Good faith, libel, slander, <ref target='Para_383'>383</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Gratian, jurist, <ref target='Para_13'>13</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Gratuitous services, <ref target='Para_337'>337</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Guardianship, ecclesiastical, <ref target='Para_11'>11</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>religion of ward, <ref target='Para_365'>365</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='257'/><anchor id='Pg257'/>

<lg>
<l>H</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Harmony, want of, <ref target='Para_290'>290</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hearing, fair trial, <ref target='Para_139'>139</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>evidence, <ref target='Para_202'>202</ref>, <ref target='Para_219'>219</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hearsay evidence, <ref target='Para_202'>202</ref>, <ref target='Para_219'>219</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Heirs and assigns, cemetery, <ref target='Para_441'>441</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Heresy, legal status, <ref target='Para_312'>312</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hold over officers, <ref target='Para_150'>150</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hospitals, public money, <ref target='Para_44'>44</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>not taxable, <ref target='Para_331'>331</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hostile to religion, <ref target='Para_41'>41</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hypocrite, slander, <ref target='Para_389'>389</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>I</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Identity of name or party, <ref target='Para_256'>256</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Illegal action, void, <ref target='Para_141'>141</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Illegitimate, custody, <ref target='Para_362'>362</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Immoral character, child, <ref target='Para_352'>352</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Impediments, marriage, <ref target='Para_480'>480</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Imprisonment, false, <ref target='Para_387'>387</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Improvements, cemetery lot, <ref target='Para_447'>447</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Income perquisites, <ref target='Para_105'>105</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Incorporated, liability, <ref target='Para_119'>119</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>powers, purposes, <ref target='Para_125'>125</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>charter, by-laws, <ref target='Para_154'>154</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Incorporation of church, <ref target='Para_62'>62</ref>, <ref target='Para_64'>64</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>congregation, <ref target='Para_65'>65</ref>, <ref target='Para_77'>77</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Incorporeal hereditament, pew, <ref target='Para_238'>238</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Independent society, status, <ref target='Para_124'>124</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Indians, wards, citizens, <ref target='Para_371'>371</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Indigent soldiers, tombstones, <ref target='Para_424'>424</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Induction, informal, <ref target='Para_96'>96</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Infallibility, judges, <ref target='Para_482'>482</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>comparisons, <ref target='Para_482'>482</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Infancy, marriage, convent, <ref target='Para_366'>366</ref>, <ref target='Para_368'>368</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Inherits, right of burial, <ref target='Para_437'>437</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Injunction, <ref target='Para_479'>479</ref>, <ref target='Para_448'>448</ref>, <ref target='Para_312'>312</ref>, <ref target='Para_213'>213</ref>, <ref target='Para_140'>140</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Injuries, liability, <ref target='Para_471'>471</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Innovations of doctrine, <ref target='Para_308'>308</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Insane, libel, slander, <ref target='Para_383'>383</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Inscriptions, offensive, <ref target='Para_443'>443</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Inspectors of election, <ref target='Para_186'>186</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of Indian schools, <ref target='Para_373'>373</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Institutions, charitable, <ref target='Para_328'>328</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>damage suits, <ref target='Para_336'>336</ref>, <ref target='Para_470'>470</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>public and private, <ref target='Para_341'>341</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Instrument of punishment, <ref target='Para_364'>364</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Insubordinate, discipline, <ref target='Para_90'>90</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Insubordination, trial, <ref target='Para_139'>139</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Insurance, divorce, <ref target='Para_478'>478</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Interest, adverse of officer, <ref target='Para_160'>160</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>must have to sue, <ref target='Para_217'>217</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Interrupt religious service, <ref target='Para_404'>404</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>J</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Jews, constitution, <ref target='Para_12'>12</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Sunday, Sabbath, <ref target='Para_412'>412</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Judge of church court, <ref target='Para_207'>207</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>may question witness, <ref target='Para_222'>222</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Judicial notice, <ref target='Para_219'>219</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>not of church law, <ref target='Para_265'>265</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Jurisdiction, church court, <ref target='Para_196'>196</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>notice of trial, <ref target='Para_303'>303</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>U. S. cemeteries, <ref target='Para_422'>422</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Juror of church court, <ref target='Para_207'>207</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Justification, libel, slander, <ref target='Para_395'>395</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>K</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Key, evidence of possession, <ref target='Para_169'>169</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Kin, cemetery rights, <ref target='Para_437'>437</ref>, <ref target='Para_441'>441</ref>, <ref target='Para_449'>449</ref>, <ref target='Para_453'>453</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>custody of corpse, <ref target='Para_457'>457</ref>, <ref target='Para_463'>463</ref>, <ref target='Para_464'>464</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>damages for mutilation, <ref target='Para_463'>463</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>L</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Land, vested titles, <ref target='Para_240'>240</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Texan church, <ref target='Para_269'>269</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>quantity limitation, <ref target='Para_283'>283</ref>, <ref target='Para_305'>305</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Language, libel, slander, <ref target='Para_383'>383</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='258'/><anchor id='Pg258'/>

<lg>
<l>Law and religion, <ref target='Para_1'>1</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>religious liberty, <ref target='Para_415'>415</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Lay members, officers, <ref target='Para_121'>121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Lease of pews, <ref target='Para_248'>248</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>exempt property, <ref target='Para_300'>300</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>with government, <ref target='Para_345'>345</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Leave to purchase, <ref target='Para_280'>280</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Legal notice, <ref target='Para_71'>71</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>rights, church courts, <ref target='Para_198'>198</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Legatee, uncertain, <ref target='Para_271'>271</ref>, <ref target='Para_322'>322</ref>, <ref target='Para_323'>323</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Legitimatized child, <ref target='Para_363'>363</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Liability of individuals, <ref target='Para_54'>54</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Libel and slander, <ref target='Para_377'>377</ref>, <ref target='Para_382'>382</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>what may be, <ref target='Para_377'>377</ref>, <ref target='Para_395'>395</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Liberty, juvenile, <ref target='Para_376'>376</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>License to do an act, <ref target='Para_454'>454</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>revoking, resisting, <ref target='Para_475'>475</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Lien for purchase money, <ref target='Para_301'>301</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Limits of cemetery, <ref target='Para_430'>430</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Limited debt by by-laws, <ref target='Para_74'>74</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>authority of inferior, <ref target='Para_88'>88</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Limitation, statutes of, <ref target='Para_206'>206</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>land holding, <ref target='Para_283'>283</ref>, <ref target='Para_305'>305</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Liquor, libel and slander, <ref target='Para_384'>384</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>near religious meeting, <ref target='Para_404'>404</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Loan to priest for church, <ref target='Para_173'>173</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Local corporation, power, <ref target='Para_84'>84</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Lord's Prayer, schools, <ref target='Para_346'>346</ref>, <ref target='Para_218'>218</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Lots given as subscription, <ref target='Para_255'>255</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemetery, title, <ref target='Para_440'>440</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Lots isolated, taxed, <ref target='Para_330'>330</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>M</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mail, prohibited, <ref target='Para_419'>419</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Major excommunication, <ref target='Para_132'>132</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Majority, what is, <ref target='Para_80'>80</ref>, <ref target='Para_146'>146</ref>, <ref target='Para_151'>151</ref>, <ref target='Para_185'>185</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>unlawful acts, <ref target='Para_128'>128</ref>, <ref target='Para_151'>151</ref>, <ref target='Para_289'>289</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>board, committee, <ref target='Para_360'>360</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Malice, libel and slander, <ref target='Para_377'>377</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Management, corporation, <ref target='Para_57'>57</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>temporal affairs, <ref target='Para_66'>66</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>factions, <ref target='Para_211'>211</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mandamus, when issued, <ref target='Para_140'>140</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Manumission of child, <ref target='Para_368'>368</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Marriage, record of, <ref target='Para_191'>191</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>infants, consent, <ref target='Para_368'>368</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Sunday promise, <ref target='Para_410'>410</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>impediments, <ref target='Para_480'>480</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>public school pupil, <ref target='Para_357'>357</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Maryland, cemetery law, <ref target='Para_426'>426</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mass defined, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Masses, bequests for, <ref target='Para_316'>316</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Masonic Order, charity, <ref target='Para_333'>333</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Materials, liability, <ref target='Para_56'>56</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Maternal relatives, child, <ref target='Para_361'>361</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Meetings of corporation, <ref target='Para_80'>80</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>notice, time, place, <ref target='Para_176'>176</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>consent, <ref target='Para_60'>60</ref>, <ref target='Para_179'>179</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Members, corporation, <ref target='Para_65'>65</ref>, <ref target='Para_253'>253</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>slander of, <ref target='Para_378'>378</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemetery owners, <ref target='Para_428'>428</ref>, <ref target='Para_445'>445</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Membership in church, <ref target='Para_114'>114</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>society members, <ref target='Para_61'>61</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>officers, <ref target='Para_156'>156</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>condition, bequest, <ref target='Para_320'>320</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Methodist division, <ref target='Para_130'>130</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>coalition, <ref target='Para_310'>310</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Presbyterians, <ref target='Para_310'>310</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Middle Ages, growth of law, <ref target='Para_12'>12</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Minister, definition, <ref target='Para_32'>32</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>authority of Protestant, <ref target='Para_81'>81</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>deposed, <ref target='Para_104'>104</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>dismissal of, <ref target='Para_109'>109</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Minor, not church voter, <ref target='Para_115'>115</ref> (see infant);</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>ex-communication, <ref target='Para_87'>87</ref>, <ref target='Para_131'>131</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Minutes, evidence, how kept, <ref target='Para_189'>189</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Misnomer, proof, <ref target='Para_256'>256</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Missions, California, <ref target='Para_268'>268</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mississippi, bigotry, <ref target='Para_50'>50</ref>, <ref target='Para_334'>334</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='259'/><anchor id='Pg259'/>

<lg>
<l>Mistake, in deed or will, <ref target='Para_317'>317</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Misuse of property, <ref target='Para_291'>291</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Money, officers, <ref target='Para_164'>164</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>stolen title, gift, <ref target='Para_483'>483</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>responsibility for, <ref target='Para_172'>172</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>gift to charity, <ref target='Para_483'>483</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>sewing circle, <ref target='Para_175'>175</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>congregation, <ref target='Para_274'>274</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>advanced by priest, <ref target='Para_109'>109</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Monks, land, <ref target='Para_268'>268</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Monuments, free, <ref target='Para_423'>423</ref>, <ref target='Para_424'>424</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>offensive, <ref target='Para_443'>443</ref>, <ref target='Para_467'>467</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>injuring, <ref target='Para_421'>421</ref>, <ref target='Para_423'>423</ref>, <ref target='Para_429'>429</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mortgage, foreclosure, <ref target='Para_232'>232</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bishop's authority, <ref target='Para_261'>261</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemetery lot, <ref target='Para_432'>432</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>church property, <ref target='Para_264'>264</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mortmain, where in force, <ref target='Para_340'>340</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mother, child, <ref target='Para_362'>362</ref>, <ref target='Para_366'>366</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mother Church, heresy, <ref target='Para_122'>122</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mother-in-law, tombstone, <ref target='Para_468'>468</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mummy, property in, <ref target='Para_465'>465</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Murder, correcting child, <ref target='Para_364'>364</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mutilation of corpse, <ref target='Para_462'>462</ref>, <ref target='Para_463'>463</ref>, <ref target='Para_464'>464</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>My wife, Anna Jones,</q> will, insurance, <ref target='Para_478'>478</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>N</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Name, change of corporate, <ref target='Para_69'>69</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>importance, record, <ref target='Para_195'>195</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>error in bequest or deed, <ref target='Para_317'>317</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Natural Justice, influence, <ref target='Para_5'>5</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Necessaries, what are, <ref target='Para_416'>416</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Necessity, work of, <ref target='Para_409'>409</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Negligence, liability, <ref target='Para_336'>336</ref>, <ref target='Para_470'>470</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Negroes, burial of, <ref target='Para_456'>456</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Newspaper, criticism of priest, <ref target='Para_385'>385</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>criticism of dead, <ref target='Para_393'>393</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>New York church law, <ref target='Para_50'>50</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Non-baptized, burial, <ref target='Para_443'>443</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Non-members, burial of, <ref target='Para_443'>443</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>officers, <ref target='Para_116'>116</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Non-residence, right of burial, <ref target='Para_458'>458</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Non-slave-holding, Methodists, <ref target='Para_130'>130</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Note, authority to make, <ref target='Para_160'>160</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>when church bound, <ref target='Para_163'>163</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>signers bound, <ref target='Para_170'>170</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Notice, legal, <ref target='Para_71'>71</ref>, <ref target='Para_176'>176</ref>, <ref target='Para_264'>264</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>due notice necessary, <ref target='Para_146'>146</ref>, <ref target='Para_176'>176</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>special meeting, <ref target='Para_178'>178</ref>, <ref target='Para_264'>264</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>service of, <ref target='Para_180'>180</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>waiver of, <ref target='Para_205'>205</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>given on Sunday, <ref target='Para_410'>410</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Nuns, individual property, <ref target='Para_342'>342</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Nuisance, cemetery, <ref target='Para_434'>434</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>O</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Obituary, libel, <ref target='Para_392'>392</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Object of juvenile courts, <ref target='Para_376'>376</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Obscene language, mail, <ref target='Para_419'>419</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Offense at common law, <ref target='Para_401'>401</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>under statutes, <ref target='Para_396'>396</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Office, religious qualifications, <ref target='Para_48'>48</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>membership qualifications, <ref target='Para_156'>156</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Officers, duties, rights, <ref target='Para_63'>63</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>non-members, <ref target='Para_156'>156</ref>, <ref target='Para_116'>116</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>libel, <ref target='Para_392'>392</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Official communication, libel, <ref target='Para_379'>379</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ohio, Bible, <ref target='Para_347'>347</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Overdraft, authority, <ref target='Para_160'>160</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Orphan asylums, public money, <ref target='Para_344'>344</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>P</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Parent and child, duties, rights, <ref target='Para_343'>343</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>direct studies, <ref target='Para_353'>353</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Parish, definition, <ref target='Para_30'>30</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>incorporating, <ref target='Para_51'>51</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>pastor's relation, <ref target='Para_91'>91</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='260'/><anchor id='Pg260'/>

<lg>
<l>Parishioner, definition, <ref target='Para_30'>30</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Parsonage, use, <ref target='Para_53'>53</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>rented, taxes, <ref target='Para_332'>332</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Parochial schools, <ref target='Para_343'>343</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Partners, unincorporated church, <ref target='Para_54'>54</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Parties to suits, <ref target='Para_76'>76</ref>, <ref target='Para_214'>214</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pastoral duties, slander, <ref target='Para_380'>380</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pastor, liability for salary, <ref target='Para_55'>55</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>relations terminated, <ref target='Para_91'>91</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Paying money to deposed clergy, <ref target='Para_213'>213</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Permission from superior, <ref target='Para_101'>101</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Personalty, church on rollers, <ref target='Para_299'>299</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Perversion of property, <ref target='Para_291'>291</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Persecutions, promoted law, <ref target='Para_8'>8</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pew, right to occupy, <ref target='Para_242'>242</ref>, <ref target='Para_244'>244</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>removal from, <ref target='Para_247'>247</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pew rent of deceased, <ref target='Para_249'>249</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>qualification of voter, <ref target='Para_250'>250</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pew rights, <ref target='Para_231'>231-250</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Philosophical foundations of law, <ref target='Para_4'>4</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Physician, Sunday, <ref target='Para_411'>411</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Christian Scientist, <ref target='Para_42'>42</ref>, <ref target='Para_417'>417</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>furnishing for family, <ref target='Para_416'>416</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Place, notice of meeting, <ref target='Para_143'>143</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Police power, cemeteries, <ref target='Para_429'>429</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Politics, minister, arrest, <ref target='Para_418'>418</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Poll list of church voters, <ref target='Para_145'>145</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Policemen, arrest, <ref target='Para_474'>474</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pollution of water, <ref target='Para_431'>431</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pope, superior authority, <ref target='Para_82'>82</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Possession, key indicates, <ref target='Para_168'>168</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Powers of corporation, <ref target='Para_164'>164</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Prayer in school, <ref target='Para_348'>348</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>meeting, notice, <ref target='Para_187'>187</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Presbyterians and Methodists, <ref target='Para_310'>310</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Preserve order, priest, <ref target='Para_403'>403</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Preside, who may, <ref target='Para_159'>159</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>President, Indians, trade, <ref target='Para_374'>374</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Presumptions, church law, <ref target='Para_228'>228</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Presiding officer, <ref target='Para_183'>183</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Presumed authority, <ref target='Para_101'>101</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Priest, bishop not liable for salary, <ref target='Para_98'>98</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>fellow-servant of bishop, <ref target='Para_95'>95</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>semi-servant, <ref target='Para_98'>98</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>removal, trial, <ref target='Para_99'>99</ref>, <ref target='Para_199'>199</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>borrowing money for church, <ref target='Para_173'>173</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>possession of, <ref target='Para_98'>98</ref>, <ref target='Para_197'>197</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>deed in priest's name, <ref target='Para_267'>267</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>agent of bishop, <ref target='Para_270'>270</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>excommunication, slander, <ref target='Para_380'>380</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>newspaper criticism, <ref target='Para_385'>385</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>using force, order, <ref target='Para_403'>403</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>excluding disorderlies, <ref target='Para_474'>474</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>witness, privilege, <ref target='Para_221'>221</ref>, <ref target='Para_222'>222</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>answers, <ref target='Para_222'>222</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>suits by and against, <ref target='Para_208'>208</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Priesthood, discipline, <ref target='Para_89'>89</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bequest to educate for, <ref target='Para_324'>324</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Principal service, notice, <ref target='Para_180'>180</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Private school, disturbing, <ref target='Para_399'>399</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Privacy, confessor, <ref target='Para_100'>100</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Privileges of church court, <ref target='Para_196'>196</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>witness, <ref target='Para_221'>221</ref>, <ref target='Para_222'>222</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemetery, <ref target='Para_441'>441</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Privileged, confessions, <ref target='Para_221'>221</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>official communications, <ref target='Para_379'>379</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Probable cause, slander, arrest, <ref target='Para_390'>390</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Procedure in church court, <ref target='Para_207'>207</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Process to obtain jurisdiction, <ref target='Para_303'>303</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Profanity, a crime, <ref target='Para_407'>407</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='261'/><anchor id='Pg261'/>

<lg>
<l>Profane language in church, <ref target='Para_397'>397</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>swearer, libel, <ref target='Para_393'>393</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Promise, consideration, <ref target='Para_234'>234</ref>, <ref target='Para_236'>236</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Proof of the notice, <ref target='Para_182'>182</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>crime, <ref target='Para_407'>407</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Proper record in parish, <ref target='Para_194'>194</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Property, title in whom, <ref target='Para_63'>63</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>confiscation, <ref target='Para_94'>94</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>execution against, <ref target='Para_118'>118</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>custody of, <ref target='Para_197'>197</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>factions, <ref target='Para_211'>211</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>restrictions on amount, <ref target='Para_304'>304</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of nuns, <ref target='Para_342'>342</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in a corpse, <ref target='Para_465'>465</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Protest against burial, <ref target='Para_453'>453</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Protestant, who is a, <ref target='Para_43'>43</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>New Hampshire, <ref target='Para_43'>43</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>superior authority, <ref target='Para_81'>81</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>services in schools, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>teacher, taxes for, <ref target='Para_47'>47</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Public institutions, support, <ref target='Para_341'>341</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemeteries, <ref target='Para_433'>433</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>school Bible, <ref target='Para_348'>348</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>religious services in, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>residence of pupils, <ref target='Para_359'>359</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>health, cemetery, <ref target='Para_434'>434</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Punishment in school, <ref target='Para_354'>354</ref>, <ref target='Para_355'>355</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>by parent, <ref target='Para_364'>364</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Purposes of a gift or bequest, <ref target='Para_278'>278</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>acquired for church, <ref target='Para_282'>282</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>leased lands, <ref target='Para_300'>300</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>exempt from taxes, <ref target='Para_329'>329</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Q</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Quarrel, secession, <ref target='Para_130'>130</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Quasi-public corporations, <ref target='Para_26'>26</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Quit-claim, conditions, <ref target='Para_286'>286</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Quorum, number necessary, <ref target='Para_80'>80</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>who counted, <ref target='Para_146'>146</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>majority, <ref target='Para_185'>185</ref>, <ref target='Para_80'>80</ref>, <ref target='Para_146'>146</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>R</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rations for Indian schools, <ref target='Para_375'>375</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Real estate taxes, <ref target='Para_51'>51</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>purposes, held for, <ref target='Para_282'>282</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>changing purpose, <ref target='Para_339'>339</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rebuilding, pewholders, <ref target='Para_245'>245</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rector or pastor, <ref target='Para_33'>33</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rector, induction, <ref target='Para_96'>96</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>charges against, <ref target='Para_384'>384</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Record, keeping, <ref target='Para_195'>195</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Recording marriage, <ref target='Para_480'>480</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Redress of priest, dismissal, <ref target='Para_199'>199</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Reformation and law, <ref target='Para_13'>13</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>pews rented, sold, <ref target='Para_237'>237</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Reformatories, juvenile courts, <ref target='Para_376'>376</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Regular church organization, <ref target='Para_70'>70</ref>, <ref target='Para_111'>111</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Regulation of cemeteries, <ref target='Para_433'>433</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Relation of pastor to parish, <ref target='Para_91'>91</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Relatives, abandoned cemetery, <ref target='Para_449'>449</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Religion, ancient, <ref target='Para_2'>2</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>corporations, <ref target='Para_26'>26</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>definition, <ref target='Para_34'>34</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Christian, <ref target='Para_24'>24</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>influence on law, <ref target='Para_1'>1</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>crime under, <ref target='Para_40'>40</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>anti-religion, freedom, <ref target='Para_41'>41</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>guardian proselyte, <ref target='Para_365'>365</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>crimes against, <ref target='Para_406'>406</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Religious garb, <ref target='Para_28'>28</ref>, <ref target='Para_49'>49</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>liberty, <ref target='Para_18'>18</ref>, <ref target='Para_28'>28</ref>, <ref target='Para_49'>49</ref>, <ref target='Para_415'>415</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>membership, <ref target='Para_110'>110</ref>, <ref target='Para_111'>111</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>service, consideration, <ref target='Para_230'>230</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>tests, <ref target='Para_35'>35</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>tolerance, <ref target='Para_18'>18</ref>, <ref target='Para_28'>28</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>society, <ref target='Para_20'>20</ref>, <ref target='Para_23'>23</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>worship, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Remedies in church court, <ref target='Para_204'>204</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Remodeling, pewholders, <ref target='Para_245'>245</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Removal, of clergy, <ref target='Para_201'>201</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of animal carcasses, <ref target='Para_452'>452</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of building, <ref target='Para_275'>275</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of corpse, <ref target='Para_460'>460</ref>, <ref target='Para_461'>461</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rented pews, <ref target='Para_237'>237</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>parsonage, <ref target='Para_332'>332</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>priest's rights, <ref target='Para_240'>240</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Repair of cemetery, <ref target='Para_471'>471</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Repeating slander, <ref target='Para_395'>395</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='262'/><anchor id='Pg262'/>

<lg>
<l>Residence of students, <ref target='Para_477'>477</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Res judicata</hi>, <ref target='Para_482'>482</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Restrictions on property, <ref target='Para_304'>304</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>corporation, <ref target='Para_249'>249</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Residents of district, <ref target='Para_359'>359</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Resulting trust, <ref target='Para_327'>327</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Revenues of parish, <ref target='Para_279'>279</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Revert, lands when, <ref target='Para_294'>294</ref>, <ref target='Para_295'>295</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Revocable license, <ref target='Para_454'>454</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Reorganization of corporation, <ref target='Para_79'>79</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ridicule of holy beings, <ref target='Para_406'>406</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Right, natural, law, <ref target='Para_3'>3</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>constitutional, <ref target='Para_43'>43</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>possession, key, <ref target='Para_168'>168</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>vested property, <ref target='Para_292'>292</ref>, <ref target='Para_210'>210</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>adoption, child, <ref target='Para_367'>367</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>burial, <ref target='Para_437'>437</ref>, <ref target='Para_439'>439</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>custody of corpse, <ref target='Para_466'>466</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>to occupy a pew, <ref target='Para_242'>242</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Riot, county liable, <ref target='Para_52'>52</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Robbed,</q> libel, slander, <ref target='Para_389'>389</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rome, source of law, <ref target='Para_5'>5</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Roman Catholic Church, <ref target='Para_82'>82</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Roman law in England, <ref target='Para_16'>16</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rules of church, <ref target='Para_114'>114</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>voters in church, <ref target='Para_184'>184</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>evidence, <ref target='Para_193'>193</ref>, <ref target='Para_219'>219-229</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>title in name of bishop, <ref target='Para_266'>266</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>diocesan, cemeteries, <ref target='Para_455'>455</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>S</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sabbath, violation of, <ref target='Para_218'>218</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sacraments, slander, <ref target='Para_391'>391</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Salary, priest's, <ref target='Para_55'>55</ref>, <ref target='Para_95'>95</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>lien for, <ref target='Para_301'>301</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sale in perpetuity, of pew, <ref target='Para_241'>241</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of church property, <ref target='Para_258'>258</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Saloon near church, <ref target='Para_475'>475</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Schism, secession, <ref target='Para_130'>130</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>School, Indian, <ref target='Para_372'>372</ref>, <ref target='Para_375'>375</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>public, <ref target='Para_343'>343</ref>, <ref target='Para_344'>344</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>parochial, <ref target='Para_343'>343</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>house, church, <ref target='Para_351'>351</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>master, authority, <ref target='Para_355'>355</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>moneys, orphanages, <ref target='Para_344'>344</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Seats, free, <ref target='Para_248'>248</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Secession, result, <ref target='Para_72'>72</ref>, <ref target='Para_130'>130</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>property, funds, <ref target='Para_123'>123</ref>, <ref target='Para_319'>319</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>debts of church, <ref target='Para_126'>126</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Secret societies, <ref target='Para_221'>221</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sect, definitions, <ref target='Para_27'>27</ref>, <ref target='Para_58'>58</ref>, <ref target='Para_94'>94</ref>, <ref target='Para_313'>313</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sectarianism, <ref target='Para_27'>27</ref>, <ref target='Para_28'>28</ref>, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sectarian, <ref target='Para_28'>28</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Bible, <ref target='Para_375'>375</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Secular courts and church, <ref target='Para_204'>204</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>matters, doctrinal, <ref target='Para_84'>84</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>work, Sunday, <ref target='Para_413'>413</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Selling pew on execution, <ref target='Para_246'>246</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sentence, publishing libel, <ref target='Para_133'>133</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sepulture, right of, <ref target='Para_140'>140</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sermon, slander, <ref target='Para_388'>388</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Servant, priest of bishop, <ref target='Para_98'>98</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Services, pay for, <ref target='Para_108'>108</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>wife's in home, <ref target='Para_370'>370</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>divine, disorder, <ref target='Para_402'>402</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>religious, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Seventh-Day observers, <ref target='Para_412'>412</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sewing circle, moneys, <ref target='Para_175'>175</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sexton, salary, <ref target='Para_174'>174</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>authority in church, <ref target='Para_314'>314</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Shakers, property of, <ref target='Para_58'>58</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sick, bells disturbing, <ref target='Para_479'>479</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Signature, <q>Nalty Family,</q> <ref target='Para_234'>234</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sins and crimes, <ref target='Para_396'>396</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sisters, hospital, public money, <ref target='Para_44'>44</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Slander at trial, <ref target='Para_203'>203</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Slave-holding, Methodists, <ref target='Para_130'>130</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Smoking in church, <ref target='Para_397'>397</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Societies, members, <ref target='Para_61'>61</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>distinct from congregation, <ref target='Para_124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Sunday meetings, <ref target='Para_413'>413</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>governed by laws, <ref target='Para_472'>472</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bishop's control of, <ref target='Para_473'>473</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>secret, <ref target='Para_221'>221</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sold pews, <ref target='Para_237'>237</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Soldiers' tombstones, <ref target='Para_423'>423</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sovereignty, meaning, <ref target='Para_38'>38</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spanish territory, church, <ref target='Para_277'>277</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='263'/><anchor id='Pg263'/>

<lg>
<l>Special damages, slander, <ref target='Para_394'>394</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Special law, incorporation, <ref target='Para_62'>62</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>meeting, notice, <ref target='Para_178'>178</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>purpose, money given for, <ref target='Para_235'>235</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spiritual authority, <ref target='Para_87'>87</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Standard of doctrine, <ref target='Para_25'>25</ref>, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Stara decisis</hi>, <ref target='Para_482'>482</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>State authority, cemeteries, <ref target='Para_425'>425</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>States, each sovereign, <ref target='Para_38'>38</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>restrictions in church lands, <ref target='Para_304'>304</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>education, books, <ref target='Para_343'>343</ref>, <ref target='Para_349'>349</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemeteries, <ref target='Para_459'>459</ref>, <ref target='Para_421'>421</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Statutes, wills, bequests, <ref target='Para_315'>315</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemeteries, <ref target='Para_421'>421</ref>, <ref target='Para_426'>426</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Stipulation, cemetery, <ref target='Para_454'>454</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Strangers, voting, <ref target='Para_146'>146</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>burial in cemetery, <ref target='Para_443'>443</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>stranger in lot, <ref target='Para_453'>453</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Students, voters, where, <ref target='Para_477'>477</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Studies, control of school, <ref target='Para_353'>353</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Subordinate organization, <ref target='Para_125'>125</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Subsequent laws to constitution, <ref target='Para_68'>68</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Subscriptions, right to solicit, <ref target='Para_102'>102</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>unpaid, liability, <ref target='Para_119'>119</ref>, <ref target='Para_234'>234</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>consideration, <ref target='Para_234'>234</ref>, <ref target='Para_236'>236</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>lot given as, <ref target='Para_255'>255</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Sunday, <ref target='Para_411'>411</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>special purpose of, <ref target='Para_235'>235</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Successors, officers, <ref target='Para_150'>150</ref>, <ref target='Para_158'>158</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bishop's, <ref target='Para_287'>287</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Suits, parties, <ref target='Para_76'>76</ref>, <ref target='Para_217'>217</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>must have right, <ref target='Para_76'>76</ref>, <ref target='Para_94'>94</ref>, <ref target='Para_235'>235</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in name of one for others, <ref target='Para_214'>214</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>prevent perverted use, <ref target='Para_291'>291</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>priest, <ref target='Para_208'>208</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sunday, services in school, <ref target='Para_351'>351</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>violations of, <ref target='Para_408'>408</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>when begins and ends, <ref target='Para_414'>414</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sunday school, church, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>, <ref target='Para_398'>398</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Superioress, liability, <ref target='Para_172'>172</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Supporting church, state, <ref target='Para_334'>334</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Support, test of membership, <ref target='Para_111'>111</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Suspension by bishop, <ref target='Para_201'>201</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Surgeon at hospital, <ref target='Para_337'>337</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>T</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Tax to support Protestantism, <ref target='Para_47'>47</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>on pews, <ref target='Para_243'>243</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>incorporation, <ref target='Para_51'>51</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Taxes, bishop's residence, <ref target='Para_265'>265</ref>, <ref target='Para_331'>331</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Teacher, religious exercise, <ref target='Para_346'>346</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>studies of pupils, <ref target='Para_353'>353</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Temporal affairs, corporation, <ref target='Para_66'>66</ref>, <ref target='Para_309'>309</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Term of office, <ref target='Para_158'>158</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Testimony, church court, <ref target='Para_203'>203</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>on trial privileged, <ref target='Para_386'>386</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Test oath, unconstitutional, <ref target='Para_36'>36</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Texan Revolution, church, <ref target='Para_269'>269</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Text-books, board controls, <ref target='Para_349'>349</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Thanks as pay, <ref target='Para_166'>166</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Theory of church crimes, <ref target='Para_405'>405</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Time of meeting, <ref target='Para_143'>143</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>condition, deed, gift, <ref target='Para_284'>284</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>disturbance of meeting, <ref target='Para_402'>402</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Title, deed, <ref target='Para_254'>254</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>adverse possession, <ref target='Para_257'>257</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>proof of, <ref target='Para_265'>265</ref>, <ref target='Para_266'>266</ref>, <ref target='Para_280'>280</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>monks in California, <ref target='Para_268'>268</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>divided church, <ref target='Para_290'>290</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>mortmain, <ref target='Para_340'>340</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cemetery lot, <ref target='Para_439'>439</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Tobacco, use of, slander, <ref target='Para_384'>384</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Tolling bell, slander, <ref target='Para_392'>392</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>when nuisance, <ref target='Para_479'>479</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='264'/><anchor id='Pg264'/>

<lg>
<l>Tombstones, <ref target='Para_423'>423</ref>, <ref target='Para_424'>424</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>right to put up, <ref target='Para_468'>468</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Torts, church courts, <ref target='Para_292'>292</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>corpse, mutilating, <ref target='Para_463'>463</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Trades taught Indians, <ref target='Para_374'>374</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Traffic, disturbing meeting, <ref target='Para_404'>404</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Treasurer, authority of, <ref target='Para_162'>162</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Trees, cutting in cemetery, <ref target='Para_469'>469</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Trespass in cemetery, <ref target='Para_429'>429</ref>, <ref target='Para_448'>448</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Tribunals, church, <ref target='Para_19'>19</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>decision of, <ref target='Para_97'>97</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>procedure privileged, <ref target='Para_377'>377</ref>, <ref target='Para_386'>386</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Trial, injunction against, <ref target='Para_99'>99</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>church, lawful, <ref target='Para_197'>197</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>counsel for parties, <ref target='Para_200'>200</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>judgment, <ref target='Para_201'>201</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>proceedings privileged, <ref target='Para_203'>203</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>True religion, <ref target='Para_2'>2</ref>, <ref target='Para_311'>311</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Trust, enforcing, <ref target='Para_60'>60</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>fraud creating, <ref target='Para_171'>171</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>courts of equity, <ref target='Para_212'>212</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>sale in perpetuity, <ref target='Para_241'>241</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bishop, land, <ref target='Para_262'>262</ref>, <ref target='Para_287'>287</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>evidence of, <ref target='Para_273'>273</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>vests in whom, <ref target='Para_278'>278</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>distinguished, <ref target='Para_296'>296</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>holding for others, <ref target='Para_340'>340</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Trustees of church, <ref target='Para_58'>58</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>disqualified, <ref target='Para_134'>134</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>duties and powers, <ref target='Para_58'>58</ref>, <ref target='Para_155'>155</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>note by trustees, <ref target='Para_163'>163</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>compensation of, <ref target='Para_166'>166</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>bequests to, <ref target='Para_251'>251</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>vacancies, how filled, <ref target='Para_288'>288</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Trust funds, <ref target='Para_297'>297</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Two-family lot in cemetery, <ref target='Para_451'>451</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>U</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Uncertainty, legatees, <ref target='Para_271'>271</ref>, <ref target='Para_322'>322</ref>, <ref target='Para_323'>323</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Undertaker, duties, rights, <ref target='Para_314'>314</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Undue influence of clergy, <ref target='Para_318'>318</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Uniformity, <ref target='Para_190'>190</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Unincorporated church, <ref target='Para_85'>85</ref>, <ref target='Para_117'>117</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>liability of members, <ref target='Para_251'>251</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>who may manage, <ref target='Para_154'>154</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Unincorporated congregation, <ref target='Para_217'>217</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>parish, <ref target='Para_117'>117</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>United States, <ref target='Para_422'>422</ref>, <ref target='Para_227'>227</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Usages, pew rent, perquisites, <ref target='Para_105'>105</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>election, <ref target='Para_148'>148</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>proof of church, <ref target='Para_228'>228</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Use, special by deed or devise, <ref target='Para_53'>53</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>for church, pews, <ref target='Para_240'>240</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of parish buildings, <ref target='Para_276'>276</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>distinguished, <ref target='Para_296'>296</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>forfeited, how, <ref target='Para_444'>444</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>V</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vacancy in office, <ref target='Para_288'>288</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vacate cemetery, <ref target='Para_459'>459</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vested rights, <ref target='Para_294'>294</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>forfeiture, <ref target='Para_72'>72</ref>, <ref target='Para_294'>294</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Violation of discipline, <ref target='Para_402'>402</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Virgin, Blessed, mail, <ref target='Para_406'>406</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Void, devise or gift, <ref target='Para_135'>135</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>elections, <ref target='Para_143'>143</ref>, <ref target='Para_177'>177</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Voire dire examination, <ref target='Para_222'>222</ref>, <ref target='Para_225'>225</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vote of excommunication, <ref target='Para_133'>133</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>students at college, <ref target='Para_477'>477</ref>. (See <q><ref target='Index-Ballot'>Ballot</ref>,</q> <q>Usage.</q>)</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Voters, qualifications, <ref target='Para_144'>144</ref>, <ref target='Para_184'>184</ref>, <ref target='Para_250'>250</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>poll list of, <ref target='Para_145'>145</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>challenge of, <ref target='Para_186'>186</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Votes, cast, majority, <ref target='Para_151'>151</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>inspectors, <ref target='Para_186'>186</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>illegal, effect, <ref target='Para_186'>186</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vows, property rights, <ref target='Para_342'>342</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>W</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wages of Sisters, <ref target='Para_49'>49</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of sexton, <ref target='Para_174'>174</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Waiver of notice, <ref target='Para_205'>205</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>challenge, <ref target='Para_186'>186</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Warden, wages, <ref target='Para_174'>174</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>authority, <ref target='Para_174'>174</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='265'/><anchor id='Pg265'/>

<lg>
<l>Wards, Indians are, <ref target='Para_371'>371</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>religion of, <ref target='Para_365'>365</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wedding pranks, unlawful, <ref target='Para_481'>481</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Well, cemetery polluting, <ref target='Para_431'>431</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>White children, public schools, <ref target='Para_357'>357</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Will, conditions, <ref target='Para_285'>285</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>under statutes, <ref target='Para_315'>315</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>slander by will, <ref target='Para_382'>382</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>disposing of corpse, <ref target='Para_457'>457</ref>, <ref target='Para_466'>466</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wisconsin's statutes, <ref target='Para_50'>50</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wisconsin Industrial School for Girls, <ref target='Para_28'>28</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Withdrawal from church, <ref target='Para_127'>127</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Witness in church trial, <ref target='Para_207'>207</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>civil courts, <ref target='Para_222'>222</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Worship, who determines, <ref target='Para_308'>308</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>religious, <ref target='Para_29'>29</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Written notice required, <ref target='Para_187'>187</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Y</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Y. M. C. A., taxes, <ref target='Para_476'>476</ref>.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='267'/><anchor id='Pg267'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<head>Books Of Doctrine, Instruction, Devotion, Meditation, Biography,
Novels, Juveniles, Etc. Published By Benziger Brothers</head>

<p>
Books not marked <hi rend='italic'>net</hi> will be sent postpaid on receipt of the advertised
price. Books marked <hi rend='italic'>net</hi> are such where ten per cent must be added for
postage. Thus a book advertised at <hi rend='italic'>net</hi> $1.00 will be sent postpaid on receipt
of $1.10.
</p>

<p>
Doctrine, Instruction, Etc.
</p>

<lg>
<l>ABANDONMENT; or, Absolute Surrender of Self to Divine
Providence. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Caussade</hi>, S.J.                      <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>ADORATION OF THE BLESSED SACRAMENT, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Tesnière.</hi>   0 50</l>
<l>ANECDOTES AND  EXAMPLES  ILLUSTRATING  THE
CATHOLIC CATECHISM. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Spirago.</hi>                    <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>ANGELS OF THE SANCTUARY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Musser.</hi>                <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 15</l>
<l>APOSTLES' CREED. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Müller</hi>, C.SS.R.                 <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 10</l>
<l>ART OF PROFITING BY OUR FAULTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Francis de
Sales</hi>,                                          <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>O'Conor.</hi>   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>BEGINNINGS OF CHRISTIANITY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Shahan</hi>.             <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<l>BLESSED SACRAMENT BOOK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance</hi>                      1 50</l>
<l>BLOSSOMS OF THE CROSS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Giehrl.</hi> 12mo.                 1 25</l>
<l>BOOK OF THE PROFESSED. 3 volumes, each,         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 75</l>
<l>BOY-SAVERS' GUIDE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Quin, S.J.</hi>                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>BREAD OF LIFE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Willam.</hi>                               0 75</l>
<l>CAMILLUS DE LELLIS. By A <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sister of Mercy</hi>.       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 00</l>
<l>CASES OF CONSCIENCE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Slater, S.J.</hi> 2 vols.       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 3 50</l>
<l>CATECHISM EXPLAINED, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Spirago-Clarke.</hi>       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 50</l>
<l>CATHOLIC BELIEF. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Faà di Bruno.</hi> 16mo, paper, <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0.15;
cloth,                                          <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 35</l>
<l>CATHOLIC CEREMONIES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Durand.</hi> Paper, 0.25; Cloth,     0 50</l>
<l>CATHOLIC GIRL'S GUIDE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance</hi>.                      1 25</l>
<l>CATHOLIC HOME ANNUAL.                                0 25</l>
<l>CATHOLIC PRACTICE AT CHURCH AND AT HOME.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Klauder.</hi> Paper, 0.30; Cloth,                         0 60</l>
<l>CATHOLIC'S READY ANSWER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hill, S.J.</hi>             <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<l>CEREMONIAL FOR ALTAR BOYS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Britt, O.S.B.</hi>        <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 35</l>
<l>CHARACTERISTICS  AND  RELIGION  OF  MODERN
SOCIALISM. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ming, S.J.</hi>                           <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>CHARACTERISTICS OF TRUE DEVOTION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Grou, S.J.</hi>    <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 75</l>
<l>CHARITY THE ORIGIN OF EVERY BLESSING.           <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>CHILD PREPARED FOR FIRST COMMUNION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Zulueta, S.J.</hi>
Paper.                                               0 05</l>
<l>CHRIST IN TYPE AND PROPHECY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Maas, S.J.</hi> 2 vols. <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 4 00</l>
<l>CHRISTIAN APOLOGETICS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Devivier-Messmer.</hi>        <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<l>CHRISTIAN EDUCATION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>O'Connell.</hi>                 <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 60</l>
<l>CHRISTIAN FATHER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cramer-Lambert.</hi>                    0 50</l>
<l>CHRISTIAN MOTHER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cramer.</hi>                            0 50</l>
<l>CHURCH AND HER ENEMIES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Müller</hi>, C.SS.R.         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 10</l>
<l>COMMENTARY ON THE PSALMS. (Ps. I-L.) <hi rend='smallcaps'>Berry.</hi>     <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<pb n='268'/><anchor id='Pg268'/>
<l>CORRECT THINKING FOR CATHOLICS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bugg.</hi>              0 75</l>
<l>COUNSELS OF ST. ANGELA.                                            <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 25</l>
<l>DEVOTIONS AND PRAYERS BY ST. ALPHONSUS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ward.</hi>                         1 25</l>
<l>DEVOTIONS AND PRAYERS FOR THE SICK-ROOM. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Krebs.</hi>                       0 50</l>
<l>DEVOTIONS TO THE SACRED HEART. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Huguet.</hi>                                0 35</l>
<l>DEVOTION TO THE SACRED HEART OF JESUS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Noldin-Kent.</hi>       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>DIVINE GRACE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Wirth.</hi>                                                  0 50</l>
<l>DIVINE OFFICE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>                     <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>ECCLESIASTICAL DICTIONARY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Thein.</hi>                         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 5 00</l>
<l>EDUCATION OF OUR GIRLS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Shields.</hi>                          <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 00</l>
<l>EUCHARIST AND PENANCE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Müller</hi>, C.SS.R.   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 10</l>
<l>EUCHARISTIC CHRIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Tesnière</hi>.              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>EUCHARISTIC LILIES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Maery.</hi>                                <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 00</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF BIBLE HISTORY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Nash.</hi>                       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 60</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF CATHOLIC MORALS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Stapleton.</hi>                            0 50</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF BALTIMORE CATECHISM. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Kinkead.</hi>              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 00</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF THE COMMANDMENTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Müller.</hi>                  <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 10</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF THE COMMANDMENTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Rolfus.</hi>                              0 50</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF THE CREED. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Rolfus.</hi>                                     0 50</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF GOSPELS AND OF CATHOLIC WORSHIP.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Lambert-Brennan.</hi> Paper, 0.25; Cloth,                              0 50</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF THE HOLY SACRAMENTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Rolfus.</hi>                           0 50</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF THE MASS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cochem.</hi>                                      0 50</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF THE PRAYERS AND CEREMONIES
OF THE MASS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lanslots</hi>, O.S.B.                                     0 50</l>
<l>EXPLANATION OF THE SALVE REGINA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus
Liguori.</hi>                                                  <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 75</l>
<l>EXTREME UNCTION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Phillip.</hi> Paper,               0 07</l>
<l>FLOWERS OF THE PASSION. 32mo.                                                  0 50</l>
<l>FOLLOWING OF CHRIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Thomas à Kempis.</hi> Leather.                        1 00</l>
<l>FOLLOWING OF CHRIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Thomas à Kempis.</hi> Plain Edition.                  0 40</l>
<l>FOR FREQUENT COMMUNICANTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Roche.</hi> Paper,                              0 10</l>
<l>FOUR LAST THINGS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cochem.</hi>                                 <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 75</l>
<l>FUNDAMENTALS OF THE RELIGIOUS LIFE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Schleuter.</hi>            <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 60</l>
<l>GENERAL CONFESSION MADE EASY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Konings.</hi> C.SS.R.                        0 15</l>
<l>GENERAL INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE
HOLY SCRIPTURES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gigot.</hi>                               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 3 00</l>
<l>GENERAL INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE
HOLY SCRIPTURES.  Abridged Edition.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gigot.</hi>           <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<l>GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF RELIGIOUS LIFE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Verheyen.</hi>           <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>GENTLEMAN, A. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Egan.</hi>                                                   0 75</l>
<l>GIFT OF THE KING. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Religious</hi> H. C. J.                                  0 35</l>
<l>GLORIES AND TRIUMPHS OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH.                                   2 00</l>
<l>GLORIES OF MARY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi> 0.50. Edition in
two volumes.                                                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 3 00</l>
<l>GLORIES OF THE SACRED HEART. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hausherr, S.J.</hi>                     0 50</l>
<l>GOD, CHRIST, AND THE CHURCH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hammer, O.F.M.</hi>                           2 00</l>
<l>GOFFINE'S DEVOUT INSTRUCTIONS.                                                 1 00</l>
<l>GREAT ENCYCLICAL LETTERS OF POPE LEO XIII.                         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 50</l>
<l>GREAT MEANS OF SALVATION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>          <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>GREETINGS TO THE CHRIST-CHILD.                                                 0 60</l>
<l>GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE CATHOLIC
SCHOOL SYSTEM IN THE UNITED STATES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Burns.</hi>            <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<l>GUIDE FOR SACRISTANS.                                              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 85</l>
<l>HANDBOOK OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Wilmers.</hi>              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>HARMONY OF THE RELIGIOUS LIFE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Heuser.</hi>                    <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>HEAVEN OPEN TO SOULS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Semple, S.J.</hi>                        <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<l>HELP FOR THE POOR SOULS, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ackermann.</hi>                                   0 60</l>
<l>HELPS TO A SPIRITUAL LIFE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Schneider.</hi>                                 0 50</l>
<l>HIDDEN TREASURE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Leonard.</hi>                                         0 50</l>
<l>HISTORY OF ECONOMICS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Dewe.</hi>                               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>HISTORY OF THE AMERICAN COLLEGE IN ROME. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brann.</hi>           <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<l>HISTORY OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Alzog.</hi> 3 vols.            <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 8 00</l>
<l>HISTORY OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Businger-Brennan.</hi>                     2 00</l>
<l>HISTORY OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brueck.</hi> 2 vols.           <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 3 00</l>
<l>HISTORY OF THE MASS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>O'Brien.</hi>                             <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>HISTORY OF THE PROTESTANT REFORMATION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gasquet.</hi>                       0 50</l>
<l>HOLINESS OF THE CHURCH IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY,
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Kempf-Breymann.</hi>                                       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<pb n='269'/><anchor id='Pg269'/>
<l>HOLY BIBLE, THE.  Ordinary Edition, Cloth, 1.25, and in
finer bindings up to 5.00. India Paper Edition, 3.50 to                6 00</l>
<l>HOLY EUCHARIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>                <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>HOLY HOUR, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Keiley.</hi>                                           0 15</l>
<l>HOLY HOUR OF ADORATION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Stang.</hi>                                    0 60</l>
<l>HOLY MASS, <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>                     <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>HOLY VIATICUM OF LIFE AS OF DEATH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Dever.</hi> Paper,
0.25;  Cloth,                                                          0 60</l>
<l>HOW TO COMFORT THE SICK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Krebs</hi>, C.SS.R.                           0 50</l>
<l>HOW TO MAKE THE MISSION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Dominican Father.</hi> Paper,                 0 10</l>
<l>IMITATION OF CHRIST. See <q>Following of Christ.</q></l>
<l>IMITATION OF THE SACRED HEART. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Arnoudt.</hi>                           1 25</l>
<l>INCARNATION, BIRTH AND INFANCY OF JESUS CHRIST.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>                            <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>IN HEAVEN WE KNOW OUR OWN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Blot</hi>, S.J.                 <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 60</l>
<l>INDEX TO WORKS OF ST. ALPHONSUS LIGUORI. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Geiermann</hi>,
C.SS.R. Paper.                                             <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 10</l>
<l>INSTRUCTIONS ON THE COMMANDMENTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus
Liguori.</hi> Cloth.                                                   0 50</l>
<l>INTERIOR OF JESUS AND MARY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Grou</hi>, S.J. 2 vols.        <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<l>INTRODUCTION TO A DEVOUT LIFE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Francis de Sales.</hi>              0 50</l>
<l>LADY, A. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bugg.</hi>                                                    0 75</l>
<l>LAWS OF THE KING. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Religious</hi> H. C. J.                              0 35</l>
<l>LESSONS OF THE SAVIOUR. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Religious</hi> H. C. J.                        0 35</l>
<l>LETTERS OF ST. ALPHONSUS LIGUORI. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Grimm</hi>, C.SS.R.
5 vols., each,                                    <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>LIFE OF MOTHER GUERIN.                                         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<l>LIFE OF BLESSED MARGARET MARY ALACOQUE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bougaud.</hi>                  0 50</l>
<l>LIFE OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Rohner-Brennan.</hi>                       0 50</l>
<l>LIFE OF CHRIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Businger-Brennan.</hi>                    <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 10 00</l>
<l>LIFE OF CHRIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cochem-Hammer.</hi>                                    0 50</l>
<l>LIFE OF CHRIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Businger.</hi>                                         2 00</l>
<l>LIFE OF HIS HOLINESS POPE PIUS X.                                          2 00</l>
<l>LIFE OF MADEMOISELLE LE GRAS.                                              0 50</l>
<l>LIFE OF ST. CATHARINE OF SIENNA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Aymé</hi>.                             1 00</l>
<l>LIFE OF ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Genelli</hi>, S.J.                        0 50</l>
<l>LIFE OF SISTER ANNE KATHARINE EMMERICH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Wegener-McGowan.</hi>
<hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<l>LITTLE ALTAR BOY'S MANUAL.                                                 0 20</l>
<l>LITTLE LIVES OF THE SAINTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Berthold.</hi>                             0 60</l>
<l>LITTLE MANUAL OF ST. ANTHONY.                                              0 15</l>
<l>LITTLE MANUAL OF ST. JOSEPH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lings.</hi>                               0 15</l>
<l>LITTLE MANUAL OF ST. RITA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>McGrath.</hi> Cloth, 0.50;
Leather,                                                               0 85</l>
<l>LITTLE MASS BOOK, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lynch.</hi> Paper,                                   0 05</l>
<l>LITTLE MONTH OF MAY.                                                       0 35</l>
<l>LITTLE MONTH OF THE SOULS IN PURGATORY.                                    0 35</l>
<l>LITTLE OFFICE OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN MARY. Edition
in Latin and English. Cloth, <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0.75 and in finer bindings
up to <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1.50. Edition in Latin only, Cloth, <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0.60
and in finer bindings up to                                <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>LITTLE OFFICE OF THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION.
Paper,                                                                 0 05</l>
<l>LITTLE PICTORIAL LIVES OF THE SAINTS.                                      1 25</l>
<l>LIVES OF THE SAINTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Butler.</hi>                                      0 50</l>
<l>LOURDES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Clarke</hi>, S.J.                                             0 50</l>
<l>MANUAL OF SELF-KNOWLEDGE AND CHRISTIAN PERFECTION,
A. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Henry</hi>, C.SS.R.                                             0 50</l>
<l>MANUAL OF THEOLOGY FOR THE LAITY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Geiermann.</hi>
C.SS.R. Paper, 0.30; Cloth,                                                0 60</l>
<l>MANUAL OF THE HOLY EUCHARIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi>                            0 85</l>
<l>MANUAL OF THE HOLY NAME.                                                   0 50</l>
<l>MANUAL OF THE SACRED HEART.                                                0 35</l>
<l>MARY HELP OF CHRISTIANS.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hammer</hi>, O.F.M.                          2 00</l>
<l>MARY THE QUEEN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Religious</hi> H. C. J.                                0 35</l>
<l>MASS AND VESTMENTS OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Walsh.</hi>                                            <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<l>MASS DEVOTIONS AND READINGS ON THE MASS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi>                 0 85</l>
<pb n='270'/><anchor id='Pg270'/>
<l>MASS-SERVER'S CARD. Per doz.                                               0 35</l>
<l>MEANS OF GRACE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brennan.</hi>                                          3 00</l>
<l>MEDITATIONS FOR ALL THE DAYS OF THE YEAR.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Hamon</hi>, S.S. 5 vols.                               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 5 00</l>
<l>MEDITATIONS FOR EVERY DAY IN THE YEAR. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Baxter.</hi>        <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>MEDITATIONS FOR EVERY DAY IN THE YEAR. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Vercruysse</hi>,
S.J. 2 vols.                                               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 3 50</l>
<l>MEDITATIONS FOR EVERY DAY IN THE MONTH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Nepveu-Ryan.</hi>              0 50</l>
<l>MEDITATIONS ON THE LAST WORDS FROM THE CROSS.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Perraud.</hi>                                          <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>MEDITATIONS ON THE LIFE, THE TEACHING, AND
THE PASSION OF JESUS CHRIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ilg-Clarke.</hi> 2 vols.  <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 3 50</l>
<l>MEDITATIONS ON THE MYSTERIES OF OUR HOLY
FAITH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Barraud</hi>, S.J. 2 vols.                      <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 3 00</l>
<l>MEDITATIONS ON THE PASSION OF OUR LORD.                                    0 50</l>
<l>MEDITATIONS  ON  THE  SUFFERINGS  OF  JESUS
CHRIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Perinaldo.</hi>                                            0 50</l>
<l>MIDDLE AGES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Shahan.</hi>                                  <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<l>MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS OF ST. ALPHONSUS LIGUORI.               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>MISSAL EXPLAINED, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Fleury</hi>, S.J.                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 85</l>
<l>MISSION BOOK FOR THE MARRIED. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Girardey.</hi> C.SS.R.                   0 50</l>
<l>MISSION BOOK FOR THE SINGLE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Girardey</hi>, C.SS.R.                    0 50</l>
<l>MOMENTS BEFORE THE TABERNACLE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Russell</hi>, S.J.          <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>MORAL PRINCIPLES AND MEDICAL PRACTICE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Coppens</hi>,
S.J. 12mo.                                                 <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 00</l>
<l>MORALITY OF MODERN SOCIALISM. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ming</hi>, S.J.              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>MORE SHORT SPIRITUAL READINGS FOR MARY'S
CHILDREN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Madame Cecilia.</hi>                                     0 50</l>
<l>MY PRAYER-BOOK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi> Imitation leather, 1.25; India
paper, 2.00. With Epistles and Gospels, India paper,                       2 25</l>
<l>NAMES THAT LIVE IN CATHOLIC HEARTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                      0 50</l>
<l>NARROW WAY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Geiermann</hi>, C.SS.R.                                    0 60</l>
<l>NEW MANUAL OF ST. ANTHONY.                                                 0 50</l>
<l>NEW MISSAL FOR EVERY DAY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi> Imitation leather,             1 50
Gold edges, 1.75, and in finer bindings.</l>
<l>NEW TESTAMENT. Cloth, 0.50; American Seal, <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1.50. Plain
Edition, <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0.20; and in finer bindings up to <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0.60. Plain
Edition, Illustrated, <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0.60.  Illustrated Edition. India
paper, Am. Seal, <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0.75, and in finer bindings up to <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 60</l>
<l>OFFICE OF HOLY WEEK.                                           <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 20</l>
<l>OUR FAVORITE DEVOTIONS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lings.</hi>                                    0 75</l>
<l>OUR FAVORITE NOVENAS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lings.</hi>                                      0 75</l>
<l>OUTLINES OF DOGMATIC THEOLOGY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hunter.</hi>  3 vols.       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 4 50</l>
<l>OUTLINES OF JEWISH HISTORY, from Abraham to Our
Lord. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gigot.</hi> 8 vo.                                <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<l>OUTLINES OF NEW TESTAMENT HISTORY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gigot.</hi>             <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<l>PARADISE ON EARTH OPENED TO ALL. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Natale</hi>, S.J.         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>PASSION AND THE DEATH OF JESUS CHRIST.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>St.
Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>                                    <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>PASTORAL LETTERS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>McFaul.</hi>                             <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>PATRON SAINTS FOR CATHOLIC YOUTH. Mannix. Each vol.                        0 60</l>
<l>PEARLS FROM FABER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brunowe.</hi>                                       0 35</l>
<l>PICTORIAL LIVES OF THE SAINTS.                                             3 00</l>
<l>POLICEMEN'S AND FIREMEN'S COMPANION.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>McGrath.</hi>
Cloth, 0.25; American Seal,                                            0 50</l>
<l>POLITICAL AND MORAL ESSAYS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Rickaby</hi>, S.J.             <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<l>POPULAR LIFE OF ST. TERESA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Porter.</hi>                               0 50</l>
<l>PRAYER-BOOK FOR RELIGIOUS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi> Cloth,  <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1.50;
American Seal,                                              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 50</l>
<l>PREACHING. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>                     <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>PREPARATION FOR DEATH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>PRINCIPLES, ORIGIN, AND ESTABLISHMENT OF THE
CATHOLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Burns.</hi>                    <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<l>PRIVATE RETREAT FOR RELIGIOUS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Geiermann</hi>, C.SS.R.     <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>QUEEN'S FESTIVALS, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Religious</hi> H. C. J.                        0 35</l>
<l>RAMBLES IN CATHOLIC LANDS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Barrett</hi>, O.S.B.            <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<pb n='271'/><anchor id='Pg271'/>
<l>REASONABLENESS OF CATHOLIC CEREMONIES AND
PRACTICES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Burke.</hi> Paper, 0.15; Cloth,                         0 35</l>
<l>RELIGIOUS STATE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>                     <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>ROMA. Pagan, Subterranean, and Modern Rome in Word and
Picture. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Kuhn.</hi> Cloth, <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 10.00; Full red morocco, <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 16 00</l>
<l>ROMAN CURIA AS IT NOW EXISTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Martin</hi>, S.J.                 <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>ROMAN MISSAL. Embossed cloth, and in finer bindings,       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 85</l>
<l>ROSARY, THE CROWN OF MARY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Dominican Father.</hi>              Paper,  0 10</l>
<l>RULES OF LIFE FOR THE PASTOR OF SOULS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Slater-Rauch.</hi>       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 00</l>
<l>SACRAMENTALS OF THE CHURCH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lambing.</hi> Paper, 0.25;
Cloth,                                                        0 50</l>
<l>SACRED HEART BOOK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi> Im. leather, 0.85; Am. Seal,  1 25</l>
<l>SACRED HEART STUDIED IN THE SACRED SCRIPTURES.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Saintrain</hi>, C.SS.R.                                            0 50</l>
<l>SACRIFICE OF THE MASS WORTHILY CELEBRATED.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Chaignon-Goesbriand.</hi>                                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<l>ST. ANTHONY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Keller.</hi>                                       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 75</l>
<l>ST. ANTHONY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ward.</hi>                                                0 50</l>
<l>SAINT FRANCIS OF ASSISI. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Dubois</hi>, S.M.                             0 50</l>
<l>SAINTS AND PLACES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ayscough.</hi>                               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>SANCTUARY BOYS' ILLUSTRATED MANUAL. <hi rend='smallcaps'>McCallen.</hi>              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>SCAPULAR MEDAL. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Geiermann</hi>, C.SS.R. Paper,                         0 05</l>
<l>SECRET OF SANCTITY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>McMahon.</hi>                                      0 50</l>
<l>SERAPHIC GUIDE.                                                   0 60</l>
<l>SHORT CONFERENCES ON THE SACRED HEART. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brinkmeyer.</hi>                0 50</l>
<l>SHORT COURSE IN CATHOLIC DOCTRINE. Paper,                         0 10</l>
<l>SHORT HISTORY OF MORAL THEOLOGY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Slater.</hi>                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>SHORT LIVES OF THE SAINTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Donnelly.</hi>                              0 60</l>
<l>SHORT MEDITATIONS FOR EVERY DAY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasausse.</hi>                        0 50</l>
<l>SHORT STORIES ON CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>McMahon.</hi>              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 00</l>
<l>SHORT VISITS TO THE BLESSED SACRAMENT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi>
Cloth,                                                        0 15</l>
<l>SOCIALISM AND CHRISTIANITY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Stang.</hi>                         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 00</l>
<l>SOCIALISM: ITS THEORETICAL BASIS AND PRACTICAL
APPLICATION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cathrein-Gettelmann.</hi>                      <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>SODALIST'S VADE MECUM.                                            0 40</l>
<l>SOLDIERS' AND SAILORS' COMPANION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>McGrath.</hi> Cloth,
0.25; American Seal,                                          0 50</l>
<l>SPECIAL INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE OLD
TESTAMENT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gigot.</hi> Part I, <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1.75; Part II,        <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 25</l>
<l>SPIRAGO'S METHOD OF CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Messmer.</hi>           <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>SPIRIT OF SACRIFICE, THE, AND THE LIFE OF SACRIFICE
IN THE RELIGIOUS STATE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Giraud-Thurston.</hi>               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<l>SPIRITUAL CONSIDERATIONS.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>Buckler</hi>, O.P.                          0 50</l>
<l>SPIRITUAL DESPONDENCY AND TEMPTATIONS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Michel-Garesché.</hi>    <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>SPIRITUAL EXERCISES FOR A TEN DAYS' RETREAT.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Smetana</hi>, C.SS.R.                                       <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 75</l>
<l>SPIRITUAL PEPPER AND SALT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Stang.</hi> Paper, 0.30; Cloth,             0 60</l>
<l>SPOILING THE DIVINE FEAST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Zulueta</hi>, S.J. Paper,                   0 07</l>
<l>STORIES FOR FIRST COMMUNICANTS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Keller.</hi>                    <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 50</l>
<l>STORY OF JESUS SIMPLY TOLD FOR THE YOUNG. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mulholland.</hi>             0 60</l>
<l>STORY OF THE ACTS OF THE APOSTLES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lynch</hi>, S.J.             <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 75</l>
<l>STORY OF THE DIVINE CHILD. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lings.</hi>                                 0 35</l>
<l>STORY OF THE FRIENDS OF JESUS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Religious</hi> H. C. J.                 0 35</l>
<l>STORIES OF THE MIRACLES OF OUR LORD.                              0 35</l>
<l>SUNDAY MISSAL, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi> Imitation leather, 0.75;
American seal.                                                1 25</l>
<l>SUNDAY-SCHOOL DIRECTOR'S GUIDE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sloan.</hi>                     <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 75</l>
<l>SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER'S GUIDE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sloan.</hi>                             0 50</l>
<l>SURE WAY TO A HAPPY MARRIAGE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taylor.</hi>                             0 50</l>
<l>TALKS WITH THE LITTLE ONES ABOUT THE APOSTLES'
CREED. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Religious</hi> H. C. J.                                     0 35</l>
<pb n='272'/><anchor id='Pg272'/>
<l>THOUGHTS AND AFFECTIONS ON THE PASSION OF
JESUS CHRIST FOR EVERY DAY OF THE YEAR. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bergamo</hi>,
O.M.Cap.                                               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 2 00</l>
<l>THOUGHTS AND COUNSELS FOR THE CONSIDERATION
OF CATHOLIC YOUNG MEN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Doss-Wirth.</hi>                     <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>THOUGHTS ON THE RELIGIOUS LIFE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi>                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>TRAINING OF CHILDREN AND OF GIRLS IN THEIR
TEENS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Madame Cecilia.</hi> Paper, 0.25; Cloth,                    0 60</l>
<l>TRUE POLITENESS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Demore.</hi>                                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 75</l>
<l>TRUE SPOUSE OF CHRIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi> 1 vol.
edition, 0.50; 2 vol. edition,                         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 3 00</l>
<l>TWO SPIRITUAL RETREATS FOR SISTERS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Zollner-Wirth.</hi>         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 00</l>
<l>VENERATION OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Rohner-Brennan.</hi>                 0 50</l>
<l>VICTORIES OF THE MARTYRS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>           <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>VIGIL HOUR. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ryan</hi>, S.J. Paper,                                     0 10</l>
<l>VISITS TO JESUS IN THE TABERNACLE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi>                       1 25</l>
<l>VISITS TO THE MOST HOLY SACRAMENT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus
Liguori.</hi>                                                      0 35</l>
<l>VOCATION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Van Tricht-Conniff.</hi> Paper,                              0 07</l>
<l>VOCATIONS EXPLAINED.  Cloth,                                      0 10</l>
<l>WAY OF INTERIOR PEACE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>De Lehen</hi>, S.J.                      <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>WAY OF SALVATION AND OF PERFECTION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus
Liguori.</hi>                                               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>WAY OF THE CROSS. Illustrated. Paper,                             0 05</l>
<l>WAY OF THE CROSS, THE. Large-type edition. Method of
<hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi> Illustrated.                           0 15</l>
<l>WAY OF THE CROSS. Illustrated. Eucharistic method.                0 15</l>
<l>WAY OF THE CROSS. By a Jesuit Father. Illustrated.                0 15</l>
<l>WAY OF THE CROSS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Francis of Assisi.</hi> Illustrated.             0 15</l>
<l>WAY OF THE CROSS. Illustrated. <hi rend='smallcaps'>St. Alphonsus Liguori.</hi>             0 15</l>
<l>WHAT CATHOLICS HAVE DONE FOR SCIENCE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brennan.</hi>             <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>WHAT THE CHURCH TEACHES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Drury.</hi> Paper, 0.30; Cloth,               0 60</l>
<l>WHAT TIMES! WHAT MORALS! <hi rend='smallcaps'>Semple</hi>, S.J. Paper, 0.20;
Cloth,                                                        0 50</l>
<l>WITH CHRIST, MY FRIEND. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sloan.</hi>                             <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 0 75</l>
<l>WITH GOD. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi> Imitation leather, 1.25; American Seal,        2 00</l>
<l>WOMEN OF CATHOLICITY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                                    0 50</l>
<l>YOUNG MAN'S GUIDE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lasance.</hi> Imitation leather.                    0 75</l>
</lg>

<p>
NOVELS.
</p>

<lg>
<l>AGATHA'S HARD SAYING. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mulholland.</hi>                                 1 00</l>
<l>BACK TO THE WORLD. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Champol.</hi>                                <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>BALLADS OF CHILDHOOD.  (Poems.)  <hi rend='smallcaps'>Earls</hi>, S.J.               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 00</l>
<l>BLACK BROTHERHOOD, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Garrold</hi>, S.J.                      <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>BOND AND FREE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Connor.</hi>                                            0 50</l>
<l><q>BUT THY LOVE AND THY GRACE.</q> <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn</hi>, S.J.                          1 00</l>
<l>BY THE BLUE RIVER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Clarke.</hi>                                 <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>CARROLL DARE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                           1 25</l>
<l>CATTLE TRAIL OF THE PRAIRIES.                                       0 50</l>
<l>CIRCUS-RIDER'S DAUGHTER.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brackel.</hi>                                0 50</l>
<l>CLIMBING THE ALPS.                                                0 50</l>
<l>CONNOR D'ARCY'S STRUGGLES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bertholds.</hi>                             0 50</l>
<l>CORINNE'S VOW. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                          1 25</l>
<l>DAUGHTER OF KINGS. A. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hinkson.</hi>                                    1 25</l>
<l>DION AND THE SIBYLS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Keon</hi>.                                    0 50</l>
<l>DOUBLE KNOT, A. AND OTHER STORIES.                                  0 50</l>
<l>ELDER MISS AINSBOROUGH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taggart.</hi>                                  1 25</l>
<l>ESQUIMAUX, THE.                                                   0 50</l>
<l>FABIOLA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Wiseman.</hi>                                                 0 50</l>
<l>FABIOLA'S SISTERS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Clarke.</hi>                                        0 50</l>
<l>FATAL BEACON, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brackel.</hi>                                       1 25</l>
<l>FAUSTULA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ayscough</hi>.                                    <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>FINE CLAY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Clarke.</hi>                                         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>FLOWERS OF THE CLOISTER.  (Poems.) <hi rend='smallcaps'>La Motte.</hi>                      1 25</l>
<l>FORGIVE AND FORGET. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lingen.</hi>                                       0 50</l>
<l>FRIENDLY LITTLE HOUSE, THE, AND OTHER STORIES.                    0 50</l>
<l>FURS AND FUR HUNTERS.                                             0 50</l>
<l>GRAPES OF THORNS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>HANDLING MAIL FOR MILLIONS.                                       0 50</l>
<l>HEART OF A MAN, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Maher.</hi>                                <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<pb n='273'/><anchor id='Pg273'/>
<l>HEARTS OF GOLD. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Edhor.</hi>                                  1 25</l>
<l>HEIRESS OF CRONENSTEIN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hahn-Hahn.</hi>                                0 50</l>
<l>HER BLIND FOLLY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Holt.</hi>                                            1 25</l>
<l>HER FATHER'S DAUGHTER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hinkson.</hi>                                   1 25</l>
<l>HER FATHER'S SHARE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Power.</hi>                                 <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>HER JOURNEY'S END. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cooke.</hi>                                         0 50</l>
<l>IDOLS: OR THE SECRET OF THE RUE CHAUSSEE
D'ANTIN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Navery.</hi>                                              0 50</l>
<l>IN GOD'S GOOD TIME. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ross.</hi>                                         0 50</l>
<l>IN THE DAYS OF KING HAL. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taggart.</hi>                                 1 25</l>
<l>IVY HEDGE, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Egan.</hi>                                      <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>KIND HEARTS AND CORONETS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Harrison.</hi>                               1 25</l>
<l>LADY OF THE TOWER, THE, AND OTHER STORIES.                        0 50</l>
<l>LIFE UNDERGROUND.                                                 0 50</l>
<l>LIGHT OF HIS COUNTENANCE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Harte.</hi>                                  0 50</l>
<l><q>LIKE UNTO A MERCHANT.</q> <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gray.</hi>                              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>LINKED LIVES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Douglas.</hi>                                     <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>LITTLE CARDINAL, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Parr.</hi>                                       1 25</l>
<l>MARCELLA GRACE.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mulholland.</hi>                                      0 50</l>
<l>MARIAE COROLLA. (Poems.) <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hill.</hi> C.P.                           1 25</l>
<l>MARIE OF THE HOUSE D'ANTERS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Earls.</hi> S.J.                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>MELCHIOR OF BOSTON. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Earls.</hi> S.J.                                   1 00</l>
<l>MIGHTY FRIEND, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>L'Ermite.</hi>                              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>MIRROR OF SHALOTT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Benson.</hi>                                 <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>MISS ERIN, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Francis.</hi>                                               0 50</l>
<l>MONK'S PARDON, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Navery.</hi>                                       0 50</l>
<l>MR. BILLY BUTTONS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lecky.</hi>                                         1 25</l>
<l>MY LADY BEATRICE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cooke.</hi>                                          0 50</l>
<l>NOT A JUDGMENT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Keon.</hi>                                             1 25</l>
<l>ON PATROL WITH A BOUNDARY RIDER.                                  0 50</l>
<l>ONLY ANNE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Clarke.</hi>                                         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>OTHER MISS LISLE, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Martin.</hi>                                    0 50</l>
<l>OUT OF BONDAGE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Holt.</hi>                                             1 25</l>
<l>OUTLAW OF CAMARGUE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lamothe.</hi>                                      0 50</l>
<l>PASSING SHADOWS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Yorke.</hi>                                           1 25</l>
<l>PAT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hinkson.</hi>                                              <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>PERE MONNIER'S WARD. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lecky.</hi>                                       1 25</l>
<l>PILKINGTON HEIR, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                                    1 25</l>
<l>PRISONERS' YEARS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Clarke.</hi>                                  <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>PRODIGAL'S DAUGHTER, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bugg.</hi>                                   1 00</l>
<l>PROPHET'S WIFE, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Browne.</hi>                                      1 25</l>
<l>RED INN OF ST. LYPHAR. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                                   1 25</l>
<l>REST HOUSE, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Clarke.</hi>                                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>ROAD BEYOND THE TOWN, AND OTHER POEMS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Earls.</hi>                     1 25</l>
<l>ROSE OF THE WORLD. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Martin.</hi>                                        0 50</l>
<l>ROUND TABLE OF AMERICAN CATHOLIC NOVELISTS.                       0 50</l>
<l>ROUND TABLE OF FRENCH CATHOLIC NOVELISTS.                         0 50</l>
<l>ROUND TABLE OF GERMAN CATHOLIC NOVELISTS.                         0 50</l>
<l>ROUND TABLE OF IRISH AND ENGLISH CATHOLIC
NOVELISTS.                                                    0 50</l>
<l>RULER OF THE KINGDOM, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Keon.</hi>                                  1 25</l>
<l>SECRET CITADEL, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Clarke.</hi>                               <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>SECRET OF THE GREEN VASE, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cooke.</hi>     0 50</l>
<l>SENIOR LIEUTENANT'S WAGER, THE, AND OTHER
STORIES.                                                      0 50</l>
<l>SHADOW OF EVERSLEIGH, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lansdowne.</hi>                             0 50</l>
<l>SHIELD OF SILENCE, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Henry-Ruffin.</hi>                      <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>SO AS BY FIRE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Connor.</hi>                            0 50</l>
<l>SOGGARTH AROON, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Guinan.</hi>                                      1 25</l>
<l>SON OF SIRO, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Copus.</hi> S.J.                                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>STORY OF CECILIA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hinkson.</hi>                                 <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>STREET SCENES IN DIFFERENT LANDS.                                 0 50</l>
<l>STUORE. (Stories.) <hi rend='smallcaps'>Earls.</hi> S.J.                                    1 00</l>
<l>TEMPEST OF THE HEART, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gray.</hi>                                  0 50</l>
<l>TEST OF COURAGE, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ross.</hi>                                       0 50</l>
<l>THAT MAN'S DAUGHTER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ross.</hi>                                        1 25</l>
<l>THEIR CHOICE.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>Skinner.</hi>                                           0 50</l>
<l>THROUGH THE DESERT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sienkiewicz.</hi>                           <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>TRAIL OF THE DRAGON, THE, AND OTHER STORIES.                      0 50</l>
<l>TRAINING OF SILAS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Devine.</hi>                                        1</l>
<pb n='274'/><anchor id='Pg274'/>
<l>TRUE STORY OF MASTER GERARD. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                             1 25</l>
<l>TURN OF THE TIDE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gray.</hi>                                           0 50</l>
<l>UNBIDDEN GUEST, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cooke.</hi>                                       0 50</l>
<l>UNDER THE CEDARS AND THE STARS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sheehan.</hi>                   <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 50</l>
<l>UNRAVELLING OF A TANGLE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taggart.</hi>                                 1 25</l>
<l>UP IN ARDMUIRLAND. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Barrett.</hi> O.S.B.                         <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 25</l>
<l>VOCATION OF EDWARD CONWAY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Egan.</hi>                                  1 25</l>
<l>WARGRAVE TRUST, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Reid.</hi>                                        1 25</l>
<l>WAY THAT LED BEYOND, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Harrison.</hi>                               1 25</l>
<l>WEDDING BELLS OF GLENDALOUGH. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Earls.</hi> S.J.                  <hi rend='italic'>net</hi>, 1 35</l>
<l>WEST AND THE GREAT PETRIFIED FOREST, THE.                         0 50</l>
<l>WHEN LOVE IS STRONG. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Keon.</hi>                                        1 25</l>
<l>WINNING OF THE NEW WEST, THE.                                 0 50</l>
<l>WOMAN OF FORTUNE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Reid.</hi>                                           1 25</l>
</lg>

<p>
JUVENILES
</p>

<lg>
<l>ADVENTURE WITH THE APACHES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ferry.</hi>                                0 35</l>
<l>ALTHEA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Nirdlinger.</hi>                                               0 50</l>
<l>AS GOLD IN THE FURNACE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Copus.</hi>                                    1 00</l>
<l>AS TRUE AS GOLD. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mannix.</hi>                                          0 35</l>
<l>BELL FOUNDRY.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>Schaching.</hi>                                         0 35</l>
<l>BERKLEYS, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Wight.</hi>                                             0 35</l>
<l>BEST FOOT FORWARD, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                     1 00</l>
<l>BETWEEN FRIENDS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Aumerle.</hi>                                         0 50</l>
<l>BISTOURI. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Melandri.</hi>                                               0 35</l>
<l>BLISSLYVANIA POST-OFFICE, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taggart.</hi>                           0 35</l>
<l>BOB O'LINK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                             0 35</l>
<l>BROWNIE AND I. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Aumerle.</hi>                                           0 50</l>
<l>BUNT AND BILL. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mulholland.</hi>                                        0 35</l>
<l>BY BRANSCOME RIVER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taggart.</hi>                                      0 35</l>
<l>CAMP BY COPPER RIVER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Spalding.</hi>                                   1 00</l>
<l>CAPTAIN TED. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                            0 50</l>
<l>CAVE BY THE BEACH FORK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Spalding.</hi>                                 1 00</l>
<l>CHARLIE CHITTYWICK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bearne.</hi>                                       1 00</l>
<l>CHILDREN OF CUPA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mannix.</hi>                                         0 35</l>
<l>CHILDREN OF THE LOG CABIN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Delamare.</hi>                              0 50</l>
<l>CLARE LORAINE. <q><hi rend='smallcaps'>Lee.</hi></q>                                             0 50</l>
<l>CLAUDE LIGHTFOOT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                           1 00</l>
<l>COLLEGE BOY, A. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Yorke.</hi>                                            1 00</l>
<l>CUPA REVISITED. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mannix.</hi>                                           0 35</l>
<l>CUPID OF CAMPION. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                           1 00</l>
<l>DADDY DAN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                              0 35</l>
<l>DEAR FRIENDS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Nirdlinger.</hi>                                         0 50</l>
<l>DIMPLING'S SUCCESS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mulholland.</hi>                                   0 35</l>
<l>ETHELRED PRESTON. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                           1 00</l>
<l>EVERY-DAY GIRL, AN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Crowley.</hi>                                      0 35</l>
<l>FAIRY OF THE SNOWS, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                    1 00</l>
<l>FIVE BIRDS IN A NEST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Delamare.</hi>                                   0 50</l>
<l>FIVE O'CLOCK STORIES.                                             0 75</l>
<l>FLOWER OF THE FLOCK, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Egan.</hi>                                   1 00</l>
<l>FOR THE WHITE ROSE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hinkson.</hi>                                      0 35</l>
<l>FRED'S LITTLE DAUGHTER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Smith.</hi>                                    0 35</l>
<l>FREDDY CARR'S ADVENTURES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Garrold.</hi>                                0 50</l>
<l>FREDDY CARR AND HIS FRIENDS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Garrold.</hi>                             0 50</l>
<l>GOLDEN LILY, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hinkson.</hi>                                        0 35</l>
<l>GREAT CAPTAIN, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hinkson.</hi>                                      0 35</l>
<l>GUILD BOYS' PLAY AT RIDINGDALE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bearne.</hi>                           1 00</l>
<l>HALDEMAN CHILDREN, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mannix.</hi>                                   0 35</l>
<l>HARMONY FLATS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Whitmire.</hi>                                          0 50</l>
<l>HARRY DEE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                                  1 00</l>
<l>HARRY RUSSELL. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Copus.</hi>                                             1 00</l>
<l>HEIR OF DREAMS, AN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>O'Malley.</hi>                                     0 35</l>
<l>HIS FIRST AND LAST APPEARANCE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                              1 00</l>
<l>HOSTAGE OF WAR, A. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bonesteel.</hi>                                     0 35</l>
<l>HOW THEY WORKED THEIR WAY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Egan.</hi>                                  0 50</l>
<l>IN QUEST OF ADVENTURE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mannix.</hi>                                    0 35</l>
<l>IN QUEST OF THE GOLDEN CHEST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Barton.</hi>                             0 50</l>
<l>JACK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Religious.</hi>H. C. J.                                          0 35</l>
<l>JACK HILDRETH ON THE NILE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taggart.</hi>                               0 50</l>
<l>JACK-O'-LANTERN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                        0 35</l>
<l>JUNIORS OF ST. BEDE'S. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bryson.</hi>                                    0 50</l>
<pb n='275'/><anchor id='Pg275'/>
<l>JUVENILE ROUND TABLE  First Series, Second Series, Third
Series. Each                                                  1 00</l>
<l>KLONDIKE PICNIC, A. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Donnelly.</hi>                                     0 50</l>
<l>LEGENDS AND STORIES OF THE HOLY CHILD JESUS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lutz.</hi>                0 75</l>
<l>LITTLE APOSTLE ON CRUTCHES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Delamare.</hi>                             0 35</l>
<l>LITTLE GIRL FROM BACK EAST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Roberts.</hi>                              0 35</l>
<l>LITTLE LADY OF THE HALL. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ryeman.</hi>                                  0 35</l>
<l>LITTLE MARSHALLS AT THE LAKE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Nixon-Roulet.</hi>                       0 50</l>
<l>LITTLE MISSY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                           0 35</l>
<l>LOYAL BLUE AND ROYAL SCARLET. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taggart.</hi>                            1 00</l>
<l>MAD KNIGHT, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Schaching.</hi>                                       0 35</l>
<l>MADCAP SET AT ST. ANNE'S. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brunowe.</hi>                                0 35</l>
<l>MAKING OF MORTLAKE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Copus.</hi>                                        1 00</l>
<l>MARKS OF THE BEAR CLAWS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Spalding.</hi>                                1 00</l>
<l>MARY TRACY'S FORTUNE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                                    0 35</l>
<l>MELOR OF THE SILVER HAND. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bearne.</hi>                                 1 00</l>
<l>MILLY AVELING. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Smith.</hi>                                             0 50</l>
<l>MIRALDA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Johnston.</hi>                                                0 35</l>
<l>MORE FIVE O'CLOCK STORIES.                                        0 75</l>
<l>MOSTLY BOYS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                                1 00</l>
<l>MYSTERIOUS DOORWAY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                                      0 35</l>
<l>MYSTERY OF CLEVERLY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Barton.</hi>                                      0 50</l>
<l>MYSTERY OF HORNBY HALL. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                                  0 50</l>
<l>NAN NOBODY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                             0 35</l>
<l>NED RIEDER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Wehs.</hi>                                                 0 50</l>
<l>NEW BOYS AT RIDINGDALE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bearne.</hi>                                   1 00</l>
<l>NEW SCHOLAR AT ST. ANNE'S. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brunowe.</hi>                               0 50</l>
<l>OLD CHARLMONT'S SEED-BED. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Smith.</hi>                                  0 35</l>
<l>OLD MILL ON THE WITHROSE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Spalding.</hi>                               1 00</l>
<l>ON THE OLD CAMPING GROUND. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mannix.</hi>                                1 00</l>
<l>OUR LADY'S LUTENIST. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bearne.</hi>                                      1 00</l>
<l>PANCHO AND PANCHITA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mannix.</hi>                                      0 35</l>
<l>PAULINE ARCHER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                                          0 35</l>
<l>PERCY WYNN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                                 1 00</l>
<l>PERIL OF DIONYSIO, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mannix.</hi>                               0 35</l>
<l>PETRONILLA, AND OTHER STORIES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Donnelly.</hi>                          0 50</l>
<l>PICKLE AND PEPPER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Dorsey.</hi>                                        1 00</l>
<l>PILGRIM FROM IRELAND. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Carnot.</hi>                                     0 35</l>
<l>PLAYWATER PLOT, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                    0 50</l>
<l>POLLY DAY'S ISLAND. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Roberts.</hi>                                      1 00</l>
<l>POVERINA. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Buckenham.</hi>                                          0 50</l>
<l>QUEEN'S PAGE, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hinkson.</hi>                                       0 35</l>
<l>QUEEN'S PROMISE, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                   0 50</l>
<l>QUEST OF MARY SELWYN. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Clementia.</hi>                                  1 00</l>
<l>RACE FOR COPPER ISLAND. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Spalding.</hi>                                 1 00</l>
<l>RECRUIT TOMMY COLLINS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bonesteel.</hi>                                 0 35</l>
<l>RIDINGDALE FLOWER SHOW. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bearne.</hi>                                   1 00</l>
<l>ROMANCE OF THE SILVER SHOON. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bearne.</hi>                              1 00</l>
<l>ST. CUTHBERT'S. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Copus.</hi>                                            1 00</l>
<l>SANDY JOE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                              1 00</l>
<l>SEA-GULL'S ROCK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sandeau.</hi>                                         0 35</l>
<l>SEVEN LITTLE MARSHALLS. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Nixon-Roulet.</hi>                             0 35</l>
<l>SHADOWS LIFTED. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Copus.</hi>                                            1 00</l>
<l>SHEER PLUCK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bearne.</hi>                                              1 00</l>
<l>SHERIFF OF THE BEECH FORK. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Spalding.</hi>                              1 00</l>
<l>SHIPMATES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                              0 50</l>
<l>STRONG-ARM OF AVALON. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                   1 00</l>
<l>SUGAR CAMP AND AFTER. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Spalding.</hi>                                   1 00</l>
<l>SUMMER AT WOODVILLE, A. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                                  0 35</l>
<l>TALES AND LEGENDS OF THE MIDDLE AGES. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Capella.</hi>                    0 75</l>
<l>TALISMAN, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                                           0 50</l>
<l>TAMING OF POLLY, THE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Dorsey.</hi>                                     1 00</l>
<l>THAT FOOTBALL GAME. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                         1 00</l>
<l>THAT OFFICE BOY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                            1 00</l>
<l>THREE LITTLE GIRLS, AND ESPECIALLY ONE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taggart.</hi>                  0 35</l>
<l>TOLD IN THE TWILIGHT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Salome.</hi>                                     0 50</l>
<l>TOM LOSELY: BOY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Copus.</hi>                                           1 00</l>
<l>TOM PLAYFAIR. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Finn.</hi>                                               1 00</l>
<l>TOM'S LUCK-POT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                         0 35</l>
<l>TOORALLADDY. By <hi rend='smallcaps'>Julia C. Walsh.</hi>                                   0 35</l>
<pb n='276'/><anchor id='Pg276'/>
<l>TRANSPLANTING OF TESSIE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                                0 50</l>
<l>TREASURE OF NUGGET MOUNTAIN.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taggart.</hi>                            0 50</l>
<l>TWO LITTLE GIRLS.  <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mack.</hi>                                          0 35</l>
<l>UNCLE FRANK'S MARY. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Clementia.</hi>                                    1 00</l>
<l>UPS AND DOWNS OF MARJORIE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Waggaman.</hi>                              0 35</l>
<l>VIOLIN MAKER, THE. Adapted by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sara Trainer Smith.</hi>                 0 35</l>
<l>WAYWARD WINIFRED. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadlier.</hi>                                        1 00</l>
<l>WINNETOU, THE APACHE KNIGHT. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Taggart.</hi>                             0 50</l>
<l>WITCH OF RIDINGDALE. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bearne.</hi>                                      1 00</l>
<l>YOUNG COLOR GUARD. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bonesteel.</hi>                                     0 35</l>
</lg>

</div>

</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
